THE THURSDAY MARCH
14TH TWENTY TWENTY FOUR MEETING
OF THE NRA HISTORIC DISTRICT
COMMISSION THIS MEETING IS
BEING HELD IN PERSON AND
ELECTRONICALLY AS IN WE INTEND
TO CONDUCT THIS HYBRID MEETING
SIMILARLY TO AN IN-PERSON
MEETING.
>> HOWEVER PLEASE BE PATIENT.
THERE ARE TECHNICAL ISSUES
MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC WHO WOULD
LIKE TO COMMENT ON HEARINGS OR
OTHER MATTERS MAY DO SO IN
PERSON OR VIRTUALLY TO SPEAK
DURING ANY OF THE PUBLIC
COMMENT OPPORTUNITIES PLEASE
CALL TWO OR SIX THREE THREE
SEVEN NINE SEVEN TWO THREE OR
TOLL FREE EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN
EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TO FOUR
SEVEN ENTER MEETING I'D NINE
SIX FIVE THREE SIX SIX NINE
NINE SEVEN SIX TWO.
THIS INFORMATION IS ALSO
AVAILABLE ON THE PUBLISHED
AGENDA IN THE PUBLIC NOTICES
SECTION OF THE CITY WEBSITE AND
ON THE BROADCAST OF THIS
MEETING ON CTM.
CTM CAN BE FOUND ON XFINITY
CHANNEL SIXTEEN AT&T CHANNEL
NINETY NINE STREAMING ONLINE ON
YOUTUBE OR AT A TUBE
OF DOGWALKER RN MISS THATCHER
WILL YOU PLEASE CALL THE ROLL.
>> YES COMMISSIONER CALDERON
YOUR COMMISSIONER FORTNER YOUR
COMMISSIONER ROSS COMMISSIONER
KAPLIN COMMISSIONER QUIJANO
HERE COMMISSIONER SMITH HERE
COMMISSIONER ROCHLIN HERE YOU
HAVE A QUORUM GREAT.
NOW WE WILL APPROVE THE AGENDA
UNLESS I HEAR ANY CHANGES TO
THE AGENDA WHICH I DO NOT.
>> SO THE AGENDA IS APPROVED
WITHOUT OBJECTION AS PRESENTED
NEXT WE WILL MOVE ON TO PUBLIC
COMMENT.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK SPEAK FOR UP
TO THREE MINUTES ABOUT AN ISSUE
THAT IS NOT LISTED AS A PUBLIC
HEARING ON THIS AGENDA TO
COMMENT ON SUCH OTHER
PRESERVATION MATTERS, PLEASE
JOIN THE MEETING USING THE
INFORMATION DISPLAYED ON THE
AGENDA AND THE VIDEO FEED.
DO WE HAVE ANY VIRTUAL PUBLIC
COMMENT OR NOT AND IS ANYONE IN
HERE FOR PUBLIC COMMENT SEEING
NONE WE WILL CLOSE FOR PUBLIC
COMMENT PORTION AND MOVE ON TO
UNFINISHED BUSINESS.
WE DO HAVE A VERY IMPORTANT
SOME BUSINESS THAT'S UNFINISHED
THAT WE WILL ATTEND TO RIGHT
NOW WE'RE GOING TO COMMEMORATE
COMMISSIONER QUIJANO.
IS THIS YOUR LAST MEETING?
IS MY LUNCH OK?
WELL WE JUST WANT TO THANK YOU
FOR ALL OF YOUR WORK THAT
YOU'VE DONE FOR THE HISTORIC
DISTRICT COMMISSION ALL THESE
YEARS.
SO JUST ON BEHALF OF ALL OF US
,THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
THAT OF COURSE AND OF COURSE WE
HAVE A RESOLUTION HERE THAT
WE'RE GOING TO I'M GOING TO
READ THIS.
>> THIS IS VERY OFFICIAL FOR
ALL OF YOU HERE.
>> THIS IS AN OFFICIAL DOCUMENT
FOR JESSICA QUIJANO AND IT
READS AS SUCH THE ANN ARBOR
HISTORIC DISTRICT COMMISSION
RESOLUTION FOR JESSICA KIANNA
WHEREAS JESSICA QUIJANO HAS
SERVED ON THE ANN ARBOR
HISTORIC DISTRICT COMMISSION
FOR SEVEN YEARS AND WHEREAS
JESSICA HAS USED HER
CONSIDERABLE
KNOWLEDGE
OF ARCHITECTURE AND
PRESERVATION IN THE PURSUIT
OF HISTORIC PRESERVATION GOALS
AND WHEREAS JESSICA HAS
SUPPORTED HISTORIC PRESERVATION
IN ANN ARBOR BY SUPPORTING
LOCAL HISTORIC DISTRICTS AND
WHEREAS JESSICA SERVED AS
SECRETARY AND VICE CHAIR OF THE
HISTORIC DISTRICT COMMISSION
AND WHEREAS JESSICA'S KNOWLEDGE
AND EXPERTIZE WILL TRULY BE
MISSED BY THE COMMISSION
THEREFORE IT BE RESOLVED THAT
THE ANN ARBOR HISTORIC DISTRICT
COMMISSION EXPRESSES ITS
SINCERE GRATITUDE AND COMMENDS
JESSICA FOR HER DEDICATED
SERVICE TO HISTORIC
PRESERVATION IN THE CITY OF ANN
ARBOR ON THIS 14TH DAY OF MARCH
2000 AND FOUR SIGNED DAVID
ROCHLIN CHAIR.
YEAH AND ALL THE COMMISSIONERS
ARE LISTED HERE AND SO NOW WE
NEED TO VOTE ON THIS MOTION.
>> I'M EXPECTING A UNANIMOUS
VOTE HERE BUT ALL THOSE IN
FAVOR PLEASE SAY YES.
YES, YES.
VERY GOOD.
THE MOTION PASSES AND I'LL HAND
THAT TO YOU YOU VERY MUCH.
>> YES, I WAS NOT EXPECTING
THAT KIND OF THING.
THANK YOU SO MUCH, JESSICA.
THANK YOU.
IT HAS BEEN AN HONOR AND VERY
ENJOYABLE TO SERVE ON THIS
COMMISSION AND WITH ALL THE
VARIOUS COMMISSIONERS OVER THE
YEARS AND PROMOTING
PRESERVATION AND DEVELOPMENT IN
OUR CITY.
SO THANK YOU FOR THAT YOUR SAID
YES.
OK, THANK YOU JAZZ COMMISSIONER
QUIJANO.
MUCH APPRECIATED.
OK, I BELIEVE THERE IS NO MORE
UNFINISHED BUSINESS.
WE WILL NOW BE MOVING ON TO F
ON YOUR AGENDA.
THAT'S THE HEARINGS AND WE WILL
START WITH THE STAFF REPORT FOR
EF1 216 NC STATE STREET.
MISS THATCHER, WILL YOU PLEASE
GIVE THE STAFF REPORT?
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
WE HAVE THREE DIFFERENT
APPLICATIONS FOR EGRESS WINDOWS
TONIGHT SO I'LL BE GOING
THROUGH THIS ONE IN DETAIL ONLY
ON THE OTHER ONES TO BE
TOUCHING ON THINGS LIKE
STANDARDS AND GUIDELINES.
BUT WE CAN ALWAYS REVISIT THOSE
IF ANYBODY WOULD LIKE TO DURING
THOSE OTHER HEARINGS TO 16 HOUR
STATE STREET IS A LARGE TWO
STORY HOUSE THAT'S LISTED IN
THE 1868 CITY DIRECTORY AS SIX
NORTH STATE THE HOME OF STEVEN
WEBSTER.
ITS EXACT CONSTRUCTION IS
UNKNOWN AS A MANSARD ROOF CLAD
FORMERLY IN TIN SHINGLES.
IT'S NOW BEEN RESTORED BACK TO
WHICH SHAKES THESE ARE
COMPOSITE WOOD SHAKES TO LOOK
LIKE WHAT WAS UNDERNEATH THE
TIN SIGNAL SHINGLES STONE
FOUNDATION STONE FRONT PORCH
WITH HEAVY COLUMNS.
AT SOME POINT SEVERAL DORMERS
WERE ADDED OR OR EXPANDED ON
THE ROOF AND THE HGC AS
RECENTLY AS SEVERAL
APPLICATIONS FOR THIS BUILDING
TO REPLACE THE ROOF IN TWENTY
TWENTY ONE THE HGC DETERMINE
THAT THE GARAGE IS A
CONTRIBUTING STRUCTURE AND MUST
BE REPAIRED AND THEY'VE BEEN
DOING A LOVELY JOB ON THAT.
YOU'LL SEE IT IN A COUPLE
OF THE PHOTOGRAPHS.
APPLICANT SEEKING FDA APPROVAL
TO CONSTRUCT A THREE BASEMENT
EGRESS WELLS AND WINDOWS TWO ON
THE SOUTH AND ONE ON THE EAST
ELEVATIONS BY MAINTAINING THE
WIDTH AND INCREASING THE DEPTH
OF EXISTING BASEMENT WINDOWS.
THIS HOUSE IS ON THE ITAN NORTH
STATE STREET AT THE CORNER
OF CATHERINE WOULD BE THE
SOUTHEAST CORNER.
SO THIS IS THE THIS IS THE WEST
ELEVATION.
NOTHING PROPOSED HERE.
THIS IS THE CATHERINE STREET
SIDE.
IT HAS THIS CRAZY HUGE DRIVEWAY
THAT YES IS ALLOWED BY A
VARIANCE FROM MANY DECADES AGO
AND THIS IS THE DRIVEWAY AND
THE GARAGE THAT'S BEEN RECENTLY
REPAIRED AND LOOKS GREAT ONE
OF THE EGRESS WINDOWS IS
PROPOSED TO GO RIGHT HERE.
IT'S VERY CLOSE TO THE FRONT
OF THE HOUSE.
LET'S ZOOM IN A LITTLE BIT
MORE.
>> THE WINDOWS ARE ALL PRETTY
STANDARD TOO LIGHT BASEMENT
WINDOWS.
THERE'S NOTHING FANCY ABOUT
THEM.
YOU SHOULD NOTE THAT THE
INTERIOR OF THIS BUILDING IS
BEING REMODELED INTO FOUR UNITS
SO ONE OF THESE BANKS OF METERS
WILL GO AWAY AND THEY'RE ONLY
BEFORE THEY'RE HERE'S A CLOSE
UP OF THE WINDOW
.
STAFF NOTED THAT A LITTLE BIT
FARTHER BACK YOU CAN SEE HERE'S
THE GARAGE FOR REFERENCE THERE
IS ANOTHER BOARDED UP BASEMENT
WINDOW AND WE'D LOVE TO HEAR
FROM THE APPLICANT WHEN IT'S
THEIR TURN WHY THIS WINDOW
CAN'T BE UTILIZED INSTEAD
OF THIS ONE THAT'S CLOSER TO
THE FRONT OF THE HOUSE THAT'S
VERY VISIBLE FROM THE STREET
AND IS ALREADY MISSING.
>> IT'S SASH IT LOOKS LIKE
MOVING AROUND THE BACK OF THE
HOUSE.
THIS IS THE SOUTH ELEVATION.
THERE ARE TWO WINDOWS HERE AND
HERE YOU CAN SEE THERE THEY'RE
THEY'RE VISIBLE FROM THE STREET
BUT THEY'RE CERTAINLY NOT
OBVIOUS AND YOU'VE GOT A BUMP
OUT HERE AND YOU GOT A BUMP OUT
ADDITION HERE WHICH MAKES THEM
SET BACK AND THIS IS AN
APPROPRIATE LOCATION FOR FOR
EGRESS WINDOWS.
THE PURPOSE IS TO FINISH THE
BASEMENT INTO DIFFERENT LAYOUT,
DIFFERENT FLOOR PLAN THAT HAS
WINDOWS, BEDROOMS NEEDING
WINDOW EGRESS WINDOW WELL
EGRESS THE WELLS ARE YOUR
STANDARD WOOD TIMBER WELLS THE
MINIMUM SIZE NEEDED FOR EGRESS
HERE IS ONE EGRESS WINDOW.
THIS IS THE ONE THAT'S THE
CLOSEST TO THE STREET THAT'S
MORE PROBLEMATIC.
THIS IS THE ONE THAT'S FARTHER
BACK THAT I SHOWED YOU THAT'S
BOARDED UP.
THESE ARE THESE BUILDING PERMIT
CONSTRUCTION DRAWINGS AND IT'S
SHOWING A NEW STAIRCASE WHICH I
BELIEVE IS A NEW STAIRCASE TO
GET TO.
YOU CAN JUST SEE THE EDGE
OF THIS LITTLE SIDE DOOR THAT'S
ALREADY EXISTING THAT WAS CUT
IN AT SOME POINT.
SO YOU'D WALK IN THERE AND GO
DOWN THE STAIRS AND WHERE THAT
WINDOW IS RIGHT NOW AND THIS
PLAN IS A WASHER AND DRYER.
BUT AGAIN THIS IS JUST THIS IS
THIS HAS NOT BEEN CONSTRUCTED
YET AND THEN WE'VE GOT THE
OTHER TWO ON THE SOUTH
ELEVATION IN BEDROOMS AND AGAIN
THOSE ARE MORE APPROPRIATE
LOCATIONS
OF ALLWOOD CASEMENT
WINDOWS ARE PROPOSED TO BE
USED.
THERE IS INFORMATION ON THEM IN
THE PACKET AND ALL THE PROFILES
WERE PROVIDED.
>> SO LET ME GO THROUGH THE
STANDARDS AND GUIDELINES.
NUMBER TWO OF THE SECRETARY
OF INTERIOR STANDARD SAYS THAT
THE HISTORIC CHARACTER
OF PROPERTY WILL BE RETAINED
AND PRESERVED THE REMOVAL
OF DISTINCTIVE MATERIALS OR
ALTERATION OF FEATURES, SPACES
AND SPATIAL RELATIONSHIPS THAT
CHARACTERIZE A PROPERTY WILL BE
AVOIDED.
NO.9 SAYS NEW ADDITIONS,
EXTERIOR ALTERATIONS OR RELATED
NEW CONSTRUCTION SHALL NOT
DESTROY HISTORIC MATERIALS THAT
CHARACTERIZE THE PROPERTY.
THE NEWARK SHALL BE
DIFFERENTIATED FROM THE OLD AND
SHALL BE COMPATIBLE WITH THE
MACING SIZE, SCALE AND
ARCHITECTURAL FEATURES TO
PROTECT THE HISTORIC INTEGRITY
OF THE PROPERTY AND ITS
ENVIRONMENT.
NO.10 SAYS THAT NEW ADDITIONS
AND ADJACENT OR RELATED NEW
CONSTRUCTION WILL BE UNDERTAKEN
IN SUCH A MANNER THAT IF
REMOVED IN THE FUTURE THE
ESSENTIAL FORM AND INTEGRITY
THE HISTORIC PROPERTY WILL BE
UNIMPAIRED FROM THE SECRETARY
OF THE INTERIOR GUIDELINES FOR
BUILDING SITE.
IT'S RECOMMENDED TO RETAIN THE
HISTORIC RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN
BUILDINGS, LANDSCAPE FEATURES
AND OPEN SPACE TO IDENTIFY,
RETAIN AND PRESERVE BUILDINGS
AND THEIR FEATURES AS WELL AS
FEATURES OF THE SITE THAT ARE
IMPORTANT IN DEFINING OVERALL
HISTORIC CHARACTER FOR THE
HEALTH AND SAFETY GUIDELINES
RECOMMENDED TO IDENTIFY THE
HISTORIC BUILDINGS CHARACTER
DEFINING SPACES FEATURES AND
FINISHES THAT CODE REQUIRED
WORK WILL NOT RESULT IN THEIR
DAMAGE OR LOSS ALSO RECOMMENDED
AS COMPLYING WITH HEALTH AND
SAFETY CODES INCLUDING SEISMIC
CODE REQUIREMENTS IN SUCH A
MANNER THAT CHARACTER DEFINING
SPACES, FEATURES AND FINISHES
ARE PRESERVED FROM THE
GUIDELINES FOR WINDOWS IT'S
RECOMMENDED DESIGN AND INSTALL
ADDITIONAL WINDOWS ON REAR OR
OTHER NON CHARACTER DEFINING
ELEVATIONS IF REQUIRED BY NEW
USE NOT RECOMMENDED AS
INTRODUCING A NEW DESIGN THAT'S
INCOMPATIBLE WITH THE START
CHARACTER OF THE BUILDING.
I THINK I ALREADY READ THAT ONE
TO YOU.
ALL RIGHT, I'M GOING BACK UP TO
OUR PROPOSAL HERE.
THE THE THE WINDOW ON THE EAST
ELEVATION THAT'S CLOSER TO THE
STREET IS ABOUT TWENTY FEET
FROM THE PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY.
IT WOULD ALSO HAVE A BOLLARD
HERE TO KEEP PEOPLE FROM
WALKING INTO IT OR POTENTIALLY
A CAR DRIVING INTO IT.
IT'S FARTHER AWAY FROM THE
DRIVEWAY THAN I THOUGHT IT WAS
BUT IT'S STILL RIGHT ALONG THE
EDGE OF IT.
>> THESE ARE ALL EXISTING
THIRTY TWO INCH WIDE BASEMENT
WINDOW OPENINGS.
THEY WOULD ALL BE MADE FORTY
EIGHT INCHES TALL AND AS I'VE
ALREADY STATED THE LOCATION IS
APPROPRIATE FOR THE S ELEVATION
WINDOWS AND STAFF IS ASKING
THAT THE APPLICANT ADDRESS WHY
THE EGRESS WINDOW CAN'T BE
MOVED TO THE OTHER BASEMENT
WINDOW SINCE THAT LOCATION
WOULD MEET THE STANDARDS AND
GUIDELINES USED BY THE HISTORIC
DISTRICT COMMISSION.
THAT'S IT FOR THE STAFF REPORT.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> OK NOW WE'LL MOVE ON TO THE
REVIEW COMMITTEE REPORT AND I
BELIEVE THAT COMMISSIONER
FORTNER AND KAPLAN WERE ON THE
REVIEW COMMITTEE.
IS THAT CORRECT?
YES.
OK, WOULD YOU PLEASE GIVE US
YOUR REPORT?
YEAH, I GUESS I WOULD ADD THAT
THAT CORNER IS VERY VISIBLE
FROM THE SIDE STREET FROM
CATHERINE IS THERE ARE TO DRIVE
THE DRIVEWAY FOR THAT HOUSE AND
THEN THE DRIVEWAY FOR THE NEXT
HOUSE RIGHT THERE.
SO IT IS REALLY VERY OPEN
.
COMMISSIONER KATHLEEN, DO YOU I
THINK THE MAJORITY OF OUR
DISCUSSION WAS REALLY JUST WE
WERE GUESSING AS TO HOW IT'S
CLEAR THAT THERE MUST BE
NEGROES WE KNOW AND THERE ARE
TWO OPTIONS WE'RE WONDERING
ABOUT THE OTHER OPTION.
THAT'S REALLY WHAT WE WERE IT'S
AN EQUIPMENT I'M TALKING ABOUT.
>> VERY GOOD.
OK, THANK YOU BOTH.
WE'LL NOW MOVE ON TO THE
OPINION COMMENTS WITH
THE
APPLICANT.
PLEASE APPROACH THE PODIUM.
THANK YOU.
PLEASE PROVIDE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS FOR THE RECORD AND
YOU'VE GOT FIVE MINUTES TO
SPEAK BUT JUST PLEASE COMMENT
ON WHAT YOU'VE HEARD AND LET US
KNOW IF YOU HAVE ANY QUESTIONS.
THANK OK.
I'M SECOND CLASS AND HEARING
FOR THE OWNER FOR SIX P.M.
STATE STREET SO JOE'S OBVIOUSLY
YOU GUYS KNOW EVERYTHING THAT'S
GOING ON HERE.
YOU KNOW WE'RE TRYING TO
INCREASE SAME DENSITY WE'RE
ADDING MORE BEDROOMS OR LIVING
SPACE, IMPROVING THE SPACES.
THE COMMENT ABOUT THE WINDOW
BEING I GUESS I WAS THINKING OR
WE WERE THINKING THAT IT'S
BECAUSE OF THE SIDE IN THE
METERS BUT YOU'RE KIND OF CLOSE
TO THE FRONT BECAUSE OF THE
STREET AND IT'S VISIBLE FROM
THE DRIVEWAY.
I MEAN I WOULD BE WILLING TO I
THINK WE CAN MAKE THAT WORK.
WE COULD MOVE IT OVER AND
RECONFIGURE THE STAIRWAY SO
THAT THAT'S HIDDEN FROM THE
STREET TO BE ABLE TO GET THE
THREE WINDOWS.
SO I WOULD YEAH.
BE WILLING TO AGREE TO THAT
TODAY.
OK, WELL THANK YOU SCOTT.
THAT'S APPRECIATED.
YEAH.
SO YOU KNOW HE TAKES PRETTY
GOOD CARE OF THE OUTSIDE OF THE
HOUSE IS AN HISTORIC DISTRICT.
WE TAKE FINAL SIDING A LOT
OF TIMES WHEN IT'S THERE TO
RESTORE THE CLAPBOARD.
SO WE DO A LOT OF THAT KIND
OF WORK.
WE LIKE THE CHARACTER IN THE
LOOK OF THEM.
>> SO CAN WE GET A PICTURE
OF THE FLOOR PLAN AND JUST
LET'S JUST BE REAL CLEAR ON
WHAT WE'RE TALKING ABOUT HERE
AND WE CAN AGREE TO IT AND SO I
THINK WE'RE TALKING ABOUT THE
WINDOW THAT'S BOARDED UP WHERE
THE WASHER AND DRYER IS.
YEAH, AND I'M NOT SURE WHY
THAT'S BOARDED UP.
OK, I KNOW THAT'LL BE NICE AND
THEY BOARDED IT UP BUT OK OK SO
THE WINDOW WHERE THE CURSOR IS
BEING CIRCLED RIGHT NOW AND
THERE'S NO SCREEN BEHIND US
RIGHT NOW, OK, YEAH SORRY
SOMETIMES THERE'S BUT YEAH WE
MUST BE TALKING ABOUT THE SAME
ONE.
YES.
WHERE IT'S BOARDED REALLY THE
ONLY OTHER WINDOW THAT'S NOT
FACING THE SIDEWALK THAT'S
AVAILABLE OK YEAH WE COULD
RECONFIGURE THAT STAIRWAY VERY
GOOD.
>> MAKE THAT WORK OK MUCH
APPRECIATED.
DO YOU HAVE ANY OTHER QUESTIONS
OR COMMENTS BECAUSE I THINK
THAT WAS LIKE OUR BIGGEST OPEN
ITEM.
YEAH NO OK ANY QUESTIONS FOR
ME.
OK BESIDES THE MORE WE'LL WE'LL
GET TO THAT IN A MOMENT
ACTUALLY.
YEAH SO THANK YOU SCOTT.
I'M JUST GOING TO MOVE ON TO
YEAH ACTUALLY DOES ANYONE HAVE
ANY QUESTIONS FOR SCOTT.
I THINK THAT THAT WAS THE BIG
ONE AND I WOULD BE SURPRISED IF
SOMEONE DID HAVE BUT THIS WOULD
BE THE MOMENT OK LOOKS LIKE
NONE.
ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU SCOTT.
APPRECIATE IT.
WE MIGHT CALL YOU BACK UP BUT
RIGHT NOW WE'VE GOT TO DO THE
PUBLIC HEARING.
SO NOW I'D LIKE TO OPEN THE
PUBLIC HEARING FOR THIS ITEM.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK FOR UP TO
THREE MINUTES ABOUT THIS
APPLICATION AT TWO SIXTEEN
NORTH STATE STREET WE HAVE
ANYONE Q AND ONE ON THE OH I'M
SORRY.
SORRY LET ANYONE HERE FOR
PUBLIC HEARING DOES NOT LOOK
LIKE IT SO AND NO ONE ON LINE
GREAT.
OK SO I WILL NOW CLOSE THE
PUBLIC HEARING FOR THIS ITEM
AND I WILL ASK IF THERE'S ANY
COMMISSIONER WHO WOULD LIKE TO
MAKE A MOTION ON THIS
APPLICATION.
>> COMMISSIONER KIONA OK I MOVE
THAT THE COMMISSION ISSUE THE
CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS
FOR THE APPLICATION AT TWO
SIXTEEN NORTH STATE STREET A
CONTRIBUTING PROPERTY AND AWFUL
OLD FOURTH WARD HISTORIC
DISTRICT TO ENLARGE THREE
EXISTING BASEMENT WINDOW
OPENINGS AND INSTALL WOOD
CASEMENT EGRESS WINDOWS AND
WELLS ON THE EAST AND SOUTH THE
EAST ONE IS THE ONE THAT'S
REMAINING THE SAME NO, I DON'T
WANT TO SAY SORRY.
LET ME REVISE WHAT CASEMENT
EGRESSED WINDOWS AND WELLS AS
AMENDED ON THE E ELEVATION AND
AS PROPOSED ON THE S ELEVATION
THE WORK IS COMPATIBLE IN
EXTERIOR DESIGN ARRANGEMENT
MATERIALS IN RELATIONSHIP TO
THE HOUSE AND THE SURROUNDING
AREA AND MEETS THE SECRETARY
OF THE INTERIOR STANDARDS FOR
REHABILITATION AND GUIDELINES
FOR REHABILITATING HISTORIC
BUILDINGS IN PARTICULAR
STANDARDS TO NINE AND TEN AND
THE GUIDELINES FOR BUILDING
SITE WINDOWS AND HEALTH AND
SAFETY AS WELL AS THE INTERIOR
HISTORIC DISTRICT DESIGN
GUIDELINES SO THAT I CAN OK I
THINK I HEARD THEN FIRST I'M
GOING TO SAY THAT THAT WAS
MOVED BY SHRIEKING HANO AND
SECOND BY COMMISSIONER KELLY
LERONE.
DO WE HAVE ANY DISCUSSION ON
THE MOTION?
WHAT I HEARD ON THE MOTION WAS
THAT THE OPENINGS WERE GOING TO
BE ENLARGED I THINK IT SAID TO
ENLARGE THE THREE EXISTING
BASEMENT WINDOW OPENINGS SILL
IS BEING RIGHT.
>> YEAH.
WHY I PAUSED IT FIRST.
YEAH, BUT IT'S BEING ENLARGED
AS PROPOSED AND SO THEY'RE JUST
PROPOSING TO ENLARGE THAT.
OK, I JUST WANTED TO MAKE SURE
WE WEREN'T SAYING WIDER BUT IT
SAYS AS PROPOSED AND I THINK
WE'RE GOOD THEY'RE OK.
>> ARE THERE ANY OTHER COMMENTS
JUST DO WE NEED TO BE MORE
SPECIFIC ABOUT AS AMENDED FROM
SOUTHEAST CORNER EASTSIDE SOUTH
EAST?
YEAH.
MAYBE SAY AS AMENDED AT THE
EAST ELEVATION SOUTH OF THE
DOORS ALSO A MATTER
OF SALVATION TO SOUTH OF THE
DOOR.
YES THAT WORKS OK SOUNDS GOOD.
THANK YOU.
OK I THINK THE THE APPLICANT
WAS VERY ACCOMMODATING WITH OUR
ONE BIG OPEN ITEM THERE SO I'M
GUESSING THAT THERE'S THERE'S
NO MORE DISCUSSION.
I THINK IT'S A IT'S A DOUBLE
WIN BECAUSE THEN THE HISTORIC
WINDOW THAT'S EXISTING THERE
GETS TO REMAIN AS WELL.
SO THAT'S JUST GREAT.
SO LET'S LET'S GO TO A VOTE.
>> ALL THOSE IN FAVOR OF THE
MOTION PLEASE SAY YES.
YES, YES.
ALL AS OPPOSED PLEASE SAY NO.
THE MOTION CARRIES YOUR
APPLICATION HAS BEEN APPROVED.
PLEASE NOTE YOU MUST APPLY FOR
ANY REQUIRED PERMITS FROM THE
CITY BEFORE BEGINNING YOUR
PROJECT.
THANK YOU.
OK MOVING RIGHT ALONG HERE TO
F2 THAT'S SEVEN OH SEVEN
LAURENCE STREET
SEVEN OR SEVEN
LAURENCE FIRST APPEARS IN CITY
DIRECTORIES IN NINETEEN OH NINE
IS THE HOME OF J.
>> FRED MOORE SUCH A BOOKKEEPER
FOR WASHTENAW LIGHT AND POWER
AND HIS WIFE A MOD TO ONE
OF THREE QUARTERS STOREY GABLE
FRONT DOOR WITH A GABLED
GALDERMA ON THE WEST ELEVATION
CORNER RETURNS WEISBORD EVE
TRAVEL WITH FRONT PORCH WITH
SKUA SQUARE COLUMNS AND A BAY
WINDOW AND THE SECOND FLOOR
THAT CENTERED ABOVE THE FRONT
PORCH OF THE HOUSE PREVIOUSLY
HAD TAPERED ROUND COLUMNS IN A
NINETEEN EIGHTY SEVEN PHOTO.
UNFORTUNATELY IN SEPTEMBER
OF TWENTY TWENTY THREE THERE
WAS A KITCHEN FIRE IN THE HOUSE
THAT TRAVELED THROUGH THE WEST
WALL.
YOU'LL BE ABLE TO SEE THE
BOARDED UP PHOTOS OF THAT WALL
IN JUST A MOMENT.
STAFF WAS ABLE TO APPROVE THE
SIDING AND A REPLACEMENT WINDOW
TO GO THERE FOR THE ONE THAT
WAS BURNED AND KNOCKED OUT AND
IS NOW SEEKING FDA APPROVAL TO
CONSTRUCT A BASEMENT EGRESS
WINDOW WELL ON THE WEST
ELEVATION BY MAINTAINING THE
WIDTH AND INCREASING THE DEPTH
OF AN EXISTING BASEMENT WINDOW.
HERE'S THE HOUSE LOVELY OLD
FOURTH WARD RENTAL HOUSE.
THIS IS THE DRIVEWAY FOR JUST
THIS HOUSE THE TO THE LEFT HERE
HAS ITS OWN DRIVEWAY ON THE
OTHER SIDE AND THE THE FIRE
AREA IS HERE.
>> YOU CAN SEE WHERE THERE WAS
THERE WAS THERE WAS ACTUAL FIRE
DAMAGE THERE AND ALSO I THINK
THE FIRE DEPARTMENT WENT
THROUGH THE WALL THERE TO MAKE
SURE, YOU KNOW, FLAMES TRAVEL
THROUGH THESE OLD STYLE LOUND
RESTRICTED WALLS.
YEAH, BALLOON FRAMES.
SO THIS IS A WINDOW WHERE
EGRESS IS PROPOSED AND IT WOULD
BE VERY SIMILAR TO THE LAST
APPLICATION.
IT WOULD HAVE A BOLLARD HERE
THAT I'LL SHOW YOU ON THE PLANS
IN A MINUTE AND THEY WOULD
SIMPLY STOP CARS FROM TRAVELING
ANY FURTHER BY PUTTING THAT
BOLLARD THERE WHICH WHICH IS
FINE.
THERE'S STILL PLENTY OF ROOM
AND IT SORT OF INFORMALLY ENDS
AROUND THERE ANYWAY.
YOU CAN SEE SCOOTER PARKING AND
OTHER THINGS IN THE BACK HERE.
THIS IS A VIEW LOOKING OUT
TOWARD THE STREET IS ALL SUPER
STRAIGHTFORWARD.
THAT'S THE WINDOW BACK THERE.
HERE'S WHERE IT'S LOCATED
TOWARD THE BACK OF THE HOUSE.
HERE'S WHERE THE THE BOLLARD
WOULD BE TO KEEP ANYONE FROM
ACCIDENTALLY DRIVING INTO THE
WELL SAME CASEMENT WINDOW THAT
WE SAW IN THE LAST APPLICATION
.
SAME STANDARDS AND GUIDELINES
APPLY
THIS ONE'S UP THIRTY FIVE
FEET FROM THE PUBLIC RIGHT
OF WAY.
IT'S THE LAST WINDOW ON THE
SIDE.
IT'S IT'S A VERY APPROPRIATE
LOCATION FOR PLAN WAS PROVIDED
TO SHOW THAT THE WINDOWS ON THE
OTHER SIDE OF THE HOUSE ARE
NEAR THE WASHER AND FURNACE.
THIS BASEMENT AREA IS SUPPOSED
TO BE REMODELED INTO A BEDROOM
.
LOCATION IS APPROPRIATE, FAIRLY
INCONSPICUOUS AND STAFF
RECOMMENDS APPROVAL.
THE APPLICATION.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
WE WILL NOW MOVE ON TO THE
REVIEW COMMITTEE REPORT
COMMISSIONERS FORTNER AND
KAPLAN.
THE REPORT PLEASE.
THERE WAS A LOT OF DISCUSSION
ABOUT THIS.
IT SEEMS YOU KNOW THE FIRE DID
A LOT OF DEMO AND YOU KNOW
WHAT'S COMING BACK.
THIS DOESN'T SEEM LIKE HAS A
SERIOUS IMPACT ON YEAH.
>> NOTHING REALLY TO ADD.
VERY GOOD.
THANK YOU BOTH.
OK, NOW WE'LL MOVE ON TO THE
APPLICANT COMMENTS WITH THE
APPLICANT.
SCOTT, PLEASE APPROACH THE
PODIUM AND PROVIDE YOUR NAME
AND ADDRESS FOR THE RECORD AND
IF YOU HAVE ANYTHING TO ADD TO
WHAT YOU'VE HEARD, PLEASE LET
US KNOW.
SCOTT CLAWSON HERE ON BEHALF
OF THE OWNER OF SEVEN OR SEVEN
PLANTS.
YEAH.
AFTER AS JOE SAID THERE WAS A
KITCHEN FIRE AT THIS HOUSE NOT
A LOT OF DAMAGE BUT DESTROYED
THE ONE WINDOW AND THAT
BASEMENT WINDOW THAT'S BOARDED
UP ALSO GOT BROKEN THE ONE
WE'RE PROPOSING TO REPLACE WITH
THE EGRESS.
YEAH, THE OWNER AFTER THE FIRE
DECIDED TO TAKE THE OPPORTUNITY
TO KIND OF DO A LITTLE WORK ON
THE PLACE AND THAT'S HOW THIS
KIND OF CAME ABOUT.
SO IT'S LOOKING TO ADD LIVING
SPACE IN THE ROOM IN THE
BASEMENT AND I THINK IT'S YOU
KNOW, IT'S PRETTY FAR OFF THE
ROAD.
IT'S IT'S KIND OF HARD TO SEE
AND LIKE I SAID, THAT WINDOW
HAS ALREADY BEEN DAMAGED SO YES
,I THANK YOU.
I APPRECIATE ANY ANY QUESTIONS
FOR SCOTT.
OK, SEEING NONE.
THANK YOU.
SCAVULLO.
WE'RE GOING TO MOVE ON TO THE
PUBLIC HEARING SO WE'LL OPEN A
PUBLIC HEARING FOR THIS ITEM
AND IF THERE'S ANYONE HERE NOW
APPROACH THE PODIUM.
I DON'T SEE ANYONE AND WE DON'T
HAVE ANYONE ONLINE SO I WILL
NOW CLOSE THE PUBLIC HEARING
FOR THIS APPLICATION AND I WILL
ASK IF THERE'S ANY COMMISSIONER
WHO WOULD LIKE TO MAKE A MOTION
TO COMMISSIONER FORTNEY I MOVE
THAT THE COMMISSION ISSUE A
CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS
FOR THE APPLICATION AND ITS 707
MAUN STREET, A CONTRIBUTING
PROPERTY IN THE OLD FOURTH WARD
HISTORIC DISTRICT TO ENLARGE AN
EXISTING BASEMENT WINDOW
OPENING AND INSTALL WOODEN
CASEMENT EGRESS WINDOW AND WELL
AND BOLLARD ON THE WEST
ELEVATION AS PROPOSED.
THE WORK IS COMPATIBLE IN
EXTERIOR DESIGN ARRANGEMENT
MATERIALS AND RELATIONSHIP TO
THE HOUSE AND THE SURROUNDING
AREA AND MEETS THE SECRETARY
OF THE INTERIOR STANDARDS FOR
REHABILITATION AND GUIDELINES
FOR REHABILITATING HISTORIC
BUILDINGS IN PARTICULAR
STANDARDS TO NINE AND TEN AND
THE GUIDELINES FOR BUILDING
SITE WINDOWS AND HEALTH AND
SAFETY AS WELL AS THE ANN ARBOR
HISTORIC DISTRICT DESIGN
GUIDELINES SUPPORT OK THAT IS
MOVE BY COMMISSIONER FORTNER
AND SUPPORTED BY COMMISSIONER
QUIJANO.
>> IS THERE ANY DISCUSSION ON
THE MOTION?
>> OK, I DON'T THINK THERE'S
ANY DISCUSSION BUT BECAUSE THIS
IS A VERY STRAIGHTFORWARD
PROPOSAL AND IT CLEARLY MEETS
THE STANDARDS LET'S GO TO A
VOTE ALL THOSE IN FAVOR OF THE
MOTION PLEASE SAY YES.
>> YES, YES, YES.
ALL THOSE OPPOSED PLEASE SAY NO
.
THE MOTION CARRIES YOUR
APPLICATION HAS BEEN APPROVED.
PLEASE NOTE YOU MUST APPLY FOR
ANY REQUIRED PERMITS FROM THE
CITY BEFORE BEGINNING YOUR
PROJECT.
THANKS A LOT.
OK NOW WE WILL MOVE ON TO F
THREE ONE THOUSAND THREE WHAT
DO YOU SAY TENNO THREE WHAT
SOUNDS GOOD TO YOU TENNO THREE
WEST LIBERTY MISS THATCHER ONE
THOUSAND THREE WEST LIBERTY I
MEAN FRIZELL IS BETTER IT'S AN
ALADIN KEIT HOME WHICH IS VERY
COOL TO ONE STORY.
CRAFTSMAN BUNGALOW FEATURES A
LOW SLUNG SIDE GABLE ROOF SIX
AND TWELVE OVER ONE WINDOWS AND
A STREET FACING SHED ROOF
DORMER WITH TWO SMALL
RECTANGULAR WINDOWS THE FULL
WITH FRONT PORCH FEATURES HEAVY
SQUARE WOULD HAVE COLUMNS OF A
LARGE DECK AND FOUNDATION
SIMPLE WOOD GUARDRAILS AND
PURGED WING WALLS FLANKING
CONCRETE FRONT STEPS FIRST
APPEARS IN CITY ASSESSOR
RECORDS IN NINETEEN EIGHTY FIVE
AND THE FIRST OCCUPANT WAS
HORACE TEEP HIRSHFIELD WHO
PURCHASED THE PROPERTY IN 1880
CURRENTLY HAS WIDE VINYL OR
ALUMINUM SIDING IN TWENTY
NINETEEN FCC APPROVED AN
APPLICATION TO REPLACE TWO
ORIGINAL WOOD WINDOWS WITH TWO
CASEMENT WINDOWS WITH APPLIED
BUTTONS AND SPACERS TO SIMULATE
THE ORIGINAL WINDOWS.
THE SITES ON THE SOUTH SIDE
OF WEST LIBERTY, WEST OF EIGHTH
STREET AND EAST OF EBER WHITE
BOULEVARD AND THE APPLICANT
SEEKING APPROVAL TO PAVE THE
SHARED DRIVEWAY THAT RUNS
BETWEEN ONE OR THREE AND ONE OR
FIVE WEST LIBERTY DRIVEWAY
WOULD BE CONCRETE AND WOULD
EXTEND TO THE BACKYARD GARAGES
FOR BOTH ADDRESSES.
>> ONE OUT OF THREE IS ON THE
LEFT IN THIS PHOTO ONE OH FIVE
IS THE GAMBRIL ROOF.
ON THE RIGHT IT'S A GRAVEL
DRIVEWAY.
THERE'S INFORMATION IN THE
PACKET THAT YOU SAW ABOUT WHAT
A MESS THE SCRABBLED DRIVEWAY
IS FOR MUCH OF THE YEAR
ESPECIALLY THE WINTER AND
MUNCEY'S IT LEADS TO TWO
GARAGES ONE FOR EACH HOUSE YOU
SEE THE OTHER ONE I MET UP THIS
IS BEHIND ONE, TWO OR THREE.
YOU CAN SEE THAT RIGHT NOW THE
GRAVEL AREA PRETTY MUCH GOES UP
TO THE HOUSE AND ALONG THE LAWN
AND IT'S IT'S IT'S WELL
DEMARCATED AND ON THE OTHER
SIDE THERE IS A FENCE THAT
KEEPS THEIR SIDE DEMARCATED AND
THEY'VE GOT LAWN ON THE OTHER
SIDE THAT GOES BACK BEHIND THE
GARAGE AND THIS THESE ARE BOTH
ADORABLE GARAGES HERE.
IT'S HARD TO SEE IN THIS
PICTURE BUT THERE'S A LITTLE
THERE'S A LITTLE PLANTING BED
WITH A TREE IN IT.
I MEAN YOU'LL SEE ANOTHER ONE
IN A MINUTE AND THIS IS JUST
THE BACK OF ONE OF FIVE.
SO THE PROPOSAL IS TO POUR
CONCRETE SLIGHTLY WIDER THAN
THE EXISTING GRAVEL BUT LEAVING
A PLANTING STRIP ON BOTH SIDES
ALONG THE HOUSES WHICH IS
APPROPRIATE FOR THE DESIGN
GUIDELINES IN THE BACK IT WOULD
GO ALL THE WAY UP TO THE HOUSE,
THE CONCRETE EXACTLY WHERE THE
GRAVEL IS NOW MOVING OUT FOR
THAT LITTLE PLANTING BED HERE
WHERE THERE'S A TREE OR A BUSH
BEHIND THE NEIGHBOR'S HOUSE.
>> IT SAYS MAYBE IN SCOPE
BECAUSE THE NEIGHBOR HASN'T
DECIDED YET IF THEY ARE GOING
TO UNDERTAKE THIS WORK OR NOT.
BUT THERE IS NO HARM IN ASKING
NOW AND IF THEY WANT TO IF IT
GOT APPROVED AND THEY WANTED TO
DO IT THE NEXT THREE YEARS, IT
WOULD ALL BE SET.
I AM ASKING THE COMMISSION TO
LOOK AT THIS AS ONE BIG PACKAGE
AND NOT TO MAKE THESE PEOPLE
COME IN AGAIN SHOULD THEY
DECIDE THAT THEY WANT IT PAVED
AT A LATER POINT.
VERY CLEAR LAYOUT SHOWING THE
EXTENT TO THE PLANNING STRIPS
ON BOTH SIDES PROBABLY YOU KNOW
THIS IS THE SHADY SIDE OF THE
HOUSE AND PROBABLY THINGS GROW
A LITTLE BETTER ON THIS SIDE
OF THIS HOUSE.
BUT AGAIN MATCHES THE CURRENT
GRAVEL OK FROM THE SECRETARY
OF THE INTERIOR STANDARDS NO
ONE HAS A PROPERTY WILL BE USED
AS IT WAS HISTORICALLY OR WE
GIVE IT A NEW USE THAT REQUIRES
MINIMAL CHANGE TO ITS
DISTINCTIVE MATERIALS, FEATURE
SPACES AND SPATIAL
RELATIONSHIPS.
I'VE READ TO YOU NUMBER TWO AND
NUMBER TEN ALREADY FROM THE
GUIDELINES FOR BUILDING SITE.
IT'S NOT RECOMMENDED TO
INTRODUCE NEW CONSTRUCTION
WHICH IS VISUALLY INCOMPATIBLE
IN TERMS OF SIZE, SCALE DESIGN
MATERIALS, COLOR AND TEXTURE OR
WHICH DESTROYS HISTORIC
RELATIONSHIPS ON THE SITE FROM
THE ANN ARBOR HISTORIC DISTRICT
DESIGN GUIDELINES FOR
RESIDENTIAL LANDSCAPE FEATURES
,IT'S NOT APPROPRIATE TO
INTRODUCE ANY NEW BUILDING
STREETSCAPE OR LANDSCAPE
FEATURE THAT'S OUT OF SCALE OR
OTHERWISE INAPPROPRIATE TO THE
DISTRICT'S HISTORIC CHARACTER
FOR THE GUIDELINES FOR PAVED
AREAS ON RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES
RETAINING AND MAINTAINING
EXISTING HISTORIC DRIVEWAYS AND
CURB CUTS INCLUDING TO TRACK
DRIVEWAYS WHICH DOES NOT APPLY
HERE AND GREEN SPACE BETWEEN
THE DRIVEWAY AND THE HOUSE.
>> ALL RIGHT.
AERIAL PHOTOS BACK TO NINETEEN
FORTY SEVEN SHOW A DRIVEWAY IN
ITS CURRENT LOCATION GOING TO A
GARAGE AT 103 AND PARKING
SPACES AT ONE OF FIVE WEST
LIBERTY.
THAT GREEN GARAGE WAS ADDED
BETWEEN 1947 AND 1960
.
I DON'T THINK I HAVE A LOT MORE
TO ADD STAFF RECOMMENDS
APPROVAL OF THE APPLICATION.
IT'S GENERALLY COMPATIBLE WITH
THE REST OF THE BUILDINGS IN
THE SURROUNDING NEIGHBORHOOD
AND MEETS THE DESIGN GUIDELINES
AND STANDARDS.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
CAN WE HAVE THE REVIEW
COMMITTEE REPORT FROM THE
COMMISSIONERS PLEASE?
>> I DON'T REALLY THINK THERE'S
ANYTHING TO ADD.
OKAY, NOTHING TO ADD FOR YOU.
OK SOUNDS FAIR NOW WE'LL GET
THE APPLICANT COMMENTS.
IS THE APPLICANT HERE THE
APPLICANT ON THE
KNOW THE
APPLICANT IS NOT OK.
HE LET ME KNOW THAT HE WAS
GOING TO BE OUT OF THE COUNTRY
OK MAYBE TODAY TOO.
I KNEW HE WAS GOING TO BE GONE
ON MONDAY.
>> OK, SO NO APPLICANT I HAVE A
QUESTION MAYBE FOR THE I'LL SAY
IT OK ANY WHILE THERE'S NO
THERE'S LET'S JUST MOVE OK.
ALL RIGHT TO THE PUBLIC HEARING
SO I'LL NOW OPEN THE PUBLIC
HEARING FOR THIS ITEM DOESN'T
LOOK LIKE THERE'S ONLY ONE HERE
FOR THE PUBLIC OR ONLINE.
SO LET'S CLOSE THE PUBLIC
HEARING AND MOVE ON TO A
COMMISSIONER MOTION.
>> IS THERE A COMMISSIONER WHO
WOULD LIKE TO MAKE A MOTION ON
THIS ITEM?
COMMISSIONER ROSS, I MOVE THAT
THE COMMISSION ISSUE A
CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS
FOR THE APPLICATION THAT ONE
ZERO ZERO THREE AND ONE ZERO
ZERO FIVE US LIBERTY STREET
CONTRIBUTING PROPERTIES IN THE
OLD WEST SIDE ASSORT DISTRICT
TO PAVE THE DRIVEWAY WITH
CONCRETE FROM THE PUBLIC RIGHT
OF WAY TO EITHER OR BOTH
GARAGES AS PROPOSED
.
THE WORK IS COMPATIBLE AN
EXTERIOR DESIGN ARRANGEMENT
TEXTURE MATERIAL IN
RELATIONSHIP TO THE SURROUNDING
RESOURCES IT MEETS ANN ARBOR
HISTORIC DISTRICT GUIDELINES
FOR PAVED AREAS AND LANDSCAPE
FEATURES IN THE SECRETARY
OF THE INTERIOR STANDARD FOR
REHABILITATION IN PARTICULAR
STANDARDS ONE, TWO AND TEN IN
THE GUIDELINES FOR BUILDING
SITE SUPPORT SECOND OK THAT WAS
MOVE BY COMMISSIONER ROSS AND
SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER
QUIJANO.
IS THERE ANY DISCUSSION ON THIS
MOTION HERE?
I HAVE A QUESTION FOR THE
REVIEW COMMITTEE ON THE SITE.
IT LOOKS LIKE THE CONCRETE IS
GOING TO BE MUCH WIDER THAN THE
GRAVEL BUT THEN IT DIDN'T
REALLY JUDGING BY KIND OF THE
PHOTOS AND EVERYTHING DOES IT
KIND OF SEEM LIKE IT'S YEAH, I
MEAN IT'S IT'S A LITTLE BIT
BIGGER JUST A LITTLE GOING TO
BE PLANTING STRIPS.
YEAH.
ON EITHER SIDE.
SO I MEAN I COULD AT DECENT I
GUESS YEAH.
>> IF YOU JUDGE THOSE RED LINES
BUT IT'S JUST SORT OF PRETTY
MUCH RIGHT THERE I WAS JUST
CONCERNED ABOUT THEM YOU KNOW
WIDENING WIDENING IT TOO MUCH
BUT IT JUST THAT PHOTO THERE I
THINK THAT LOOKS WIDER.
>> YEAH I THINK THAT WITH THE
GRAVEL THAT THEY'VE BEEN USING
IT FOR TIME IMMEMORIAL LACK
OF DEFINITION OF THOSE
BOUNDARIES IS SORT OF PICK YOUR
LINE RIGHT?
YEAH, IT'S HARD TO SAY.
LOOK, THERE'S CLEARLY A PLACE
WHERE YOU SEE LOTS OF TIRE
TRAFFIC DEFINING WHERE THE CARS
GO AND WHAT HAPPENS THE GRAVEL
IS YEAH I THINK IT STANDS THE
CHANCE OF MAKING IT EVEN FEEL
LIGHTER.
>> IT SOUNDS GOOD.
OK, ANY FURTHER DISCUSSION HERE
?
OK, I DON'T SEE ANY I THINK
THAT'S BECAUSE THIS IS ALSO
VERY CUT AND DRY SO LET'S GO TO
A VOTE HERE.
>> ALL THOSE IN FAVOR OF THE
MOTION PLEASE SAY YES.
>> YES, YES, YES.
ALL THOSE OPPOSED PLEASE SAY NO
.
THE MOTION CARRIES AND THE
APPLICATION HAS BEEN APPROVED.
OK, THAT WAS ONE THOUSAND THREE
WEST LIBERTY AND NOW WE'LL MOVE
ON TO HEARING FOR THREE OH NINE
WEST WILLIAM MISS ARCHER, THE
STAFF REPORT WHEN YOU READ
THREE OR NINE WEST WILLIAM IS
IN THE OLD WEST SIDE HISTORIC
DISTRICT SO ONE AND A HALF
STOREY GABLE HUNTER IT FEATURES
A FULL WITH FRONT PORCH
CLAPBOARD ON THE LOWER STOREY
AND SHINGLES ABOVE THE HOME WAS
FIRST OCCUPIED IN 1917 BY
DANIEL LEVELAND, A FOREMAN AT
HOOVER STEEL BALL CURRENT
OWNERS RECEIVED AN HGC
REHABILITATION AWARD IN 2009
FOR REMOVING NOT ORIGINAL
SIDING AND OTHER RESTORATION
WORK ON THEIR HOME.
IN 2010 THE FTC APPROVED AN
APPLICATION TO PAVE THE
DRIVEWAY IN CONCRETE AND BUILD
ALTHOUGH RETAINING WALL SITES
ON THE SOUTH SIDE OF WEST
WILLIAM BETWEEN 2ND STREET AND
3RD STREET.
AND YOU CAN SEE FROM THE LITTLE
LOCATOR MAP OF THE STAFF REPORT
THAT IT'S IT'S IT'S ALMOST
SPITTING DISTANCE OF THE
RAILROAD TRACKS WHERE THEY
CROSS WEST.
WILLIAM THE APPLICANT IS
SEEKING APPROVAL TO CLOSE A
REAR SCREEN PORCH AND ENLARGE A
WINDOW ON THE REAR ELEVATION.
>> ALL RIGHT.
SO HERE WE ARE IN THE BACK
YARD.
YOU CAN SEE THERE'S AN EXISTING
SCREEN PORCH.
THIS IS AN ORIGINAL STRUCTURE.
IT SHOWS UP ON ALL OF THE
SANBORN'S ON WHICH THIS APPEARS
IT HAS HAD SOME MODIFICATION.
IT WOULDN'T HAVE ORIGINALLY
BEEN SCREENED.
I DON'T KNOW WHEN THAT WAS DONE
AND THESE ARE JUST STRAIGHT
FOUR BY FOURS ON THE CORNER.
>> SO IT LOOKS LIKE THEY HAVE A
LOT OF PAINT BUT IT'S KIND
OF HARD TO TELL THE AGE
OF WHAT'S GOING ON BENEATH THE
ROOF.
LET'S WALK AROUND AND THIS IS
THE WINDOW ON THE BACK THAT'S
PROPOSED TO BE AND LARGE IT'S
WHAT I ALWAYS CALL A PIANO
WINDOW THAT HAD A BUFFET OR
PIANO UNDERNEATH IT.
IT WOULD BE MADE DEEPER SO THE
SILL WOULD BE LOWERED AND WE'LL
GET TO THOSE DIMENSIONS IN A
SECOND.
FIRST THE PORCH SO YOU CAN SEE
THAT IT'S A FAIRLY TYPICAL I
THINK THAT'S A TOUGH ONE GROUP
FLORA THERE IT'S KIND HARD TO
TELL MAYBE NOT.
IT'S GOT TO BE BROAD CEILING.
IT'S GOT SCREEN PANELS THAT
HAVE AN ADDED IT'S PRETTY
STRAIGHTFORWARD.
THE CONCRETE STEPS WOULD BE
REPLACED WITH TREX STEPS
INSTEAD WHICH IS A SUITABLE
MATERIAL FOR BACKYARD ENTRY.
A COUPLE MORE THERE'S THERE'S
BOARD HERE.
IT LOOKS LIKE IT'S BEEN THERE
FOR A WHILE BUT I DON'T KNOW IF
IT LOOKS HISTORIC OR NOT.
LIKE I SAID, THIS WAS NOT THIS
WAS NOT LIKE THE ORIGINAL
GUARDRAIL OR SOMETHING ON THE
BACK PORCH.
IT JUST ISN'T PROPORTIONED
RIGHT FOR THAT.
IT'S THERE TO KEEP YOU FROM
KICKING OUT THE SCREEN WALLS
NOT TO KEEP YOU FROM FALLING
OVER THE EDGE OF THE PORCH
WINDOW.
I MEAN I WOULDN'T KNOW NUMBERS.
THIS IS A SINGLE SASH.
FIFTEEN LIGHT WINDOW THAT'S
FORTY FOUR POINT THREE EIGHT
INCHES WIDE AND TWENTY NINE AND
A QUARTER INCH TALL AND IT'S
SUPPOSED TO BE REPLACED WITH A
TALLER WINDOW THAT'S FORTY AND
SEVEN EIGHTHS INCH SO IT BE
ALMOST SQUARE SLIGHTLY WIDER
THAN IT IS TALL AND IT AGAIN IT
WOULD GO FROM A FIFTEEN LIGHT
TO A SIXTEEN LIGHT WINDOW.
THE HD C WILL NEED TO DETERMINE
WHETHER THE CURRENT WINDOW IS
IMPORTANT IN DEFINING THE
OVERALL HISTORIC CHARACTER
OF THE PROPERTY OR A CLOSE UP
OF THAT WINDOW.
IT'S GOT A STORM ON IT SO
YOU'RE SEEING THAT METAL STORM
WINDOW AROUND THE EDGES THERE
PLANS AND DRAWINGS FOR THE
PROJECT HERE IT IS ON THE BACK
BASICALLY THE THE THE BACK
PORCH WOULD THE ROOF STRUCTURE
WOULD REMAIN BUT EVERYTHING
BELOW IT WOULD BE REPLACED WITH
CONDITIONS SPACE WITH AN ACTUAL
ROOM WITH WINDOWS ON THREE
SIDES AND A NEW DOOR AND THE
THE CURRENT BACK DOOR WOULD BE
REMOVED AND WOULD FLOW THROUGH
TO THE KITCHEN.
>> HERE'S A RENDERING OF WHAT
IT WOULD LOOK LIKE WITH THE
ENCLOSURE AND THE WINDOW MADE
TALLER WITH THE LOWER SILL
MATERIALS THE THE CLIPBOARD
WOULD BE HARDY PLANK SMOOTH
FACED AND LIKE I SAID, THERE'S
A TREX STAIR SET HERE.
THERE'S AN ALUMINUM RAILING
AGAIN NOT SUITABLE FOR THE
FRONT OF A WOOD HOUSE LIKE THIS
PROBABLY BUT FINE ON THE BACK I
THINK THERE'S SOME HEARTY
PANELS NEW ANDERSSEN WOOD RIGHT
WINDOWS ARE PROPOSED TO GO IN
HERE.
IT'S REALLY VERY
STRAIGHTFORWARD APPLICATION.
THERE'S A NEW FIBERGLASS
THERMAL DOOR.
THERE'S A SIDE DOOR FURTHER UP
ON THIS SIDE OF THE HOUSE THAT
ALSO HAS MULTIPLE LIGHTS LIKE
THAT.
SO IT WOULD BE COMPLEMENTARY TO
THAT EVEN THOUGH YOU COULDN'T
SEE IT FROM THE STREET BORAL
TRIM THE EAST ELEVATION AND
THERE ARE AS A NICE DETAIL
SHEET SHOWING THE HARDY SIDING
AND THE WINDOWS AND THE DOOR IT
IS SIMULATED DIVIDED LIGHTS.
OH WAIT A SECOND.
THESE LOOK THEY'RE APPLIED BUT
THEN IT SAYS GIRLS BETWEEN THE
GLASS SO WE WILL ASK THE
APPLICANT ABOUT THAT WHEN IT'S
THEIR TURN.
I THINK THAT THAT MIGHT JUST
NOT BE A CURRENT STATEMENT.
OH I SEE DIVIDED LIGHTS APPLIED
TO THE SURFACE AND GIRLS
BETWEEN THE GLASS TO SIMULATE
MORE TRADITIONAL DARKENED
DIRECTION.
OK, THAT'S ALL GOOD.
AND SOME MORE DETAILS ON THE
DOOR FROM THE SECRETARY OF THE
INTERIOR STANDARDS I HAVE
ALREADY READ TO YOU NO TO
NUMBER FIVE SAYS DISTINCTIVE
MATERIALS, FEATURES, FINISHES
AND CONSTRUCTION TECHNIQUES
EXAMPLES OF CRAFTSMANSHIP THAT
CHARACTERIZE A PROPERTY WILL BE
PRESERVED.
I'VE READ TO YOU NUMBERS NINE
AND TEN FROM THE SECRETARY
OF INTERIOR'S GUIDELINES FOR
ADDITIONS.
IT'S RECOMMENDED TO CONSTRUCT A
NEW ADDITIONS THAT THERE'S THE
LEAST POSSIBLE LOSS OF HISTORIC
MATERIALS AS THAT CHARACTER
DEFINING FEATURES ARE NOT
OBSCURED, DAMAGED OR DESTROYED
.
>> IT'S ALSO RECOMMENDED TO
LOCATE THE ATTACHED EXTERIOR
EDITION AT THE REAR OR AN
INCONSPICUOUS SITE OF A
HISTORIC BUILDING LIMITING ITS
SIZE AND SCALE IN RELATIONSHIP
OF HISTORIC BUILDING AND
DESIGNING NEW EDITIONS IN A
MANNER THAT MAKES CLEAR WHAT IS
HISTORIC AND WHAT IS NEW
RECOMMENDED IS CONSIDERING THE
ATTACHED EXTERIOR EDITION IN
TERMS OF THE NEW USE AND THE
APPEARANCE OF OTHER BUILDINGS.
DESIGN MAY BE CONTEMPORARY OR
MAY REFERENCE DESIGN MOTIFS
FROM THE HISTORIC BUILDING.
I THINK THEY'VE DONE A NICE JOB
ON THIS ONE OF DISTINGUISHING
THE NEW FROM THE OLD THE THE
FOUNDATION WILL BE DIFFERENT A
VERY EXCITING TYPE.
THEY'VE THEY'VE NOT REPLICATED
THE TRIM EXACTLY.
>> THE ROOF WILL BE THE
ORIGINAL STRUCTURE UP THERE
WHICH IS GREAT BECAUSE IT KEEPS
THE WHOLE EDITION IN THE
HISTORIC MASS OF OF THE HOUSE.
BUT ALL OF THE NEW WORK IS
DISTINGUISHED NOT RECOMMENDED
ATTACHING TO ADDITIONS THAT
CHARACTER DESIGN FEATURES
OF THE HISTORIC BUILDING
OBSCURED, DAMAGED OR DESTROYED
FROM THE GUIDANCE FOR WINDOWS.
IT'S NOT RECOMMENDED TO
INTRODUCE A NEW DESIGN THAT IS
INCOMPATIBLE WITH THE HISTORIC
CHARACTER OF BUILDING.
ALSO NOT RECOMMENDED IS
CHANGING THE NUMBER LOCATION
SIZE OR GLAZING PATTERN.
YOU'RE CUTTING NEW OPENINGS,
BLOCKING IN WINDOWS AND
INSTALLING REPLACEMENT SASH
WHICH DOES NOT FIT THE HISTORIC
WINDOW OPENING REMOVING A
RADICALLY CHANGING WINDOWS
WHICH ARE IMPORTANT IN DEFINING
THE HISTORIC CHARACTER OF THE
BUILDING SO THAT AS A RESULT
THE CHARACTER IS DIMINISHED
RIGHT STAFF BELIEVES THE
ENCLOSED PORCH IS COMPATIBLE
WITH REST OF THE BUILDING AND
AS I MENTIONED, THE HISTORIC
DISTRICT COMMISSION WILL NEED
TO DETERMINE WHETHER
THE
CURRENT WINDOW THAT THEY WOULD
LIKE TO REPLACE IS IMPORTANT IN
DEFINING THE HISTORIC CHARACTER
OF THE PROPERTY.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH, MISS
STATURE.
LET'S MOVE ON TO THE REVIEW
COMMITTEE REPORT SO THE REVIEW
COMMITTEE PLEASE GIVE YOUR
REPORT I THINK SIMILAR TO WHAT
WAS JUST STARTED BY STAFF.
I THINK THE PORTRAIT CLOSURE
SEEMED FINE.
I HAD NO RESERVATIONS ABOUT
THAT WHEN THINKING ON SITE
ABOUT THE WINDOW BEING REMOVED
AND REPLACED, I FELT MORE
RESISTANT TO THAT.
HOWEVER, WHEN I SEE IT IN THE
SKETCH FORM I SEE WHAT THE
REPLACEMENT LOOKS LIKE AND
CONSIDERING THAT IT'S IN THE
BACK OF THE HOUSE I DON'T THINK
I WAS AS RESISTANT AS I WAS
JUST IN CONCEPT WHEN WHEN I WAS
LOOKING AT THE ORIGINAL WINDOW
AND SAYING THAT'S COMING OUT.
THANK YOU.
NOTHING ADDITIONAL.
OK, VERY GOOD.
>> THANK YOU BOTH.
>> SO NOW WE'LL MOVE ON TO
APPLICANT COMMENTS AND SO IS
THE APPLICANT HERE.
PLEASE APPROACH THE PODIUM AND
PROVIDE YOUR NAME AND ADDRESS
FOR THE RECORD AND THEN LET US
KNOW IF YOU HAVE ANYTHING TO
ADD TO THE STAFF REPORT OR WHAT
YOU HEARD FROM THE REVIEW
COMMITTEE AGAIN, THANK YOU.
MY NAME IS SCOTT.
I'M HERE ON BEHALF OF THE
HOMEOWNERS AT 309 WEST WILLIAM
STREET JUST TO REITERATE THANK
YOU AS WELL TO MR FOR THE
LOVELY INTRODUCTION AND PEF
OF THE REPORTS.
I DO WANT TO REITERATE THE
PROPOSED WORK IS INTENDED TO BE
ON THE REAR OF THE HOUSE SO
WE'RE NOT ANTICIPATING FROM THE
DESIGN FROM OUR DESIGN
PERSPECTIVE THAT IT WILL BE
SUBSTANTIALLY VISIBLE FROM THE
PUBLIC FRONTAGE AND REGARDING
THE ROOF AS STATURED HAD
MENTIONED THE ROOF WOULD BE
LEFT TO MAINTAIN THE EXISTING
ROOF WOULD BE MAINTAINED AS IS
WITH THE EXISTING STRUCTURE
SUPPORTING EACH OF OUR I DID
WANT TO MAKE A CLARIFICATION ON
THE HANDOUTS WE WERE CALLING
OUT FOR AZTEK MATERIAL FOR THE
STAIR RATHER THAN TREX IF IS
THE COMMISSION'S PREFERENCE TO
USE TREX FOR AN APPLICATION
LIKE THIS I DON'T THINK THAT'S
A CHANGE THAT THE HOMEOWNERS OR
THE CONTRACTORS WOULD BE IN
DISAGREEMENT OF MAKING.
I APOLOGIZE IF I MISSPOKE.
I KIND OF WENT OFF THE TOP
OF MY HEAD AND DIDN'T LOOK WHAT
YOU ARE ACTUALLY PROPOSING AND
THEN FOR THE WINDOW AS WELL WE
WILL PROBAY DEFER TO YOU GUYS
THIS DECISION THAT KNOW I DO
HAVE A QUESTION ON BEHALF
OF THE HOMEOWNER.
THERE IS A STRONG DESIRE FOR
THE NEW WINDOWS GOING ONTO THE
CLOSURE TO HAVE THOSE BE A NINE
LANE SASH OVER ONE LIGHT SASH
RATHER THAN THE SIX FLAGS SASH
OVER ONE LIGHT AS SHOWN.
WE DO ACKNOWLEDGE THIS IS MUCH
MORE IN LINE WITH THE EXISTING
WINDOWS ON THE HOUSE.
SO I WANTED TO POSE THAT
QUESTION TO YOU GUYS TO GET
YOUR DETERMINATIONS ON WHETHER
THAT WOULD BE AN APPROPRIATE
ALTERATION TO MAKE ANYTHING
ELSE.
SCOTT.
I DON'T BELIEVE SO.
OK, THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
ARE THERE ANY QUESTIONS YOU CAN
JUST STAY THERE FOR A SEC.
THERE MIGHT BE SOME QUESTIONS.
ARE THERE ANY QUESTIONS FOR THE
APPLICANT?
LOOKS LIKE THERE MIGHT BE ONE
BEING CONSIDERED BY
COMMISSIONER ROSS OVER THERE
QUESTION NOT FOR THE NOT FOR
THE THAT FOR THE AREA JUST
LOOKED LIKE YEAH OK.
CAN I HAVE A QUESTION AND JUST
REGARDING THAT THE WINDOW IN
QUESTION THAT THAT IS GOING TO
BE REMOVED AND REPLACED.
CAN YOU CAN YOU JUST GIVE US
LIKE WHY ARE YOU DOING THAT
PART OF THE PROJECT?
>> SURE.
SO GIVEN THAT THE AREA OF THE
HOUSE IS FACING THAT IS THE
PREDOMINANT DIRECTION THAT
LIGHT IS COMING INTO THE HOUSE
AND THAT IS ONE OF THE PRIMARY
LIVING SPACES WITHIN IS THIS IS
THEIR DINING ROOM AND ALSO JUST
A GATHERING SPACE OF IT.
SO THEY WANTED THE OPPORTUNITY
TO BRING AS MUCH LIGHT INTO
THAT SPACE AS THEY COULD.
A SIMILAR REASON AS TO WHY
WE'RE PROPOSING REMOVING THAT
DOOR THAT'S ON THE INTERIOR THE
ENCLOSED PORCH JUST SO THAT WE
CAN MAXIMIZE THE AMOUNT
OF LIGHT COMING INTO THE HOUSE
THROUGH THOSE SPACES.
OK, VERY GOOD.
THANK YOU.
>> OK, ARE THERE ANY QUESTIONS?
I DON'T SEE ANY SO THANK YOU.
WE CALL YOU BACK UP OK FOR THE
MOMENT WE'RE GOOD.
WE'RE GOING TO GO TO THE PUBLIC
HEARING SO THE PUBLIC HEARING
FOR THIS APPLICATION AT THREE
OR NINE US WILLIAM IS NOW OPEN.
WE DON'T HAVE ANYONE HERE.
YES AND WE DON'T HAVE ANYONE TO
ZOOM BUT LET'S CHECK OUT WE DO
NOT GOOD.
>> OK, SO NOW WE'LL CLOSE THE
PUBLIC COMMENT PORTION AND WE
WILL ASK A COMMISSIONER TO
PLEASE MAKE A MOTION
AND THE
COMMISSIONER WILL DO OK.
>> THANK YOU.
I MOVE THAT COMMISSION ISSUED A
CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS
FOR THE APPLICATION OF THREE OR
NINE WEST WILLIAM STREET, A
CONTRIBUTING PROPERTY IN THE
OLD WEST SIDE HISTORIC DISTRICT
TO ENCLOSE A REAR SCREEN PORCH
AND ENLARGER WINDOW ON THE REAR
ELEVATION AS PROPOSED THE WORK
IS COMPATIBLE AN EXTERIOR
DESIGN ARRANGEMENT MATERIALS IN
RELATIONSHIP TO THE HOUSE AND
SURROUNDING AREA AND MEETS THE
CITY OF ANN ARBOR HISTORIC
DISTRICT DESIGN GUIDELINES FOR
NEW ADDITIONS AND WINDOWS AND
THE SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR
STANDARDS FOR REHABILITATION
AND GUIDELINES FOR
REHABILITATING HISTORIC
BUILDINGS AND PARTICULAR
STANDARDS TO FIVE NINE AND TEN
AND THE GUIDELINES FOR NEW
ADDITIONS NEIGHBORHOOD SETTING,
BUILDING SITE AND WINDOWS WERE
GREAT THAT MOTION BY
COMMISSIONER KIYONO AND
SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER KAPLIN
GREAT.
OK SO LET'S LET'S KIND
OF SEPARATE THE TWO MAJOR PARTS
OF THIS PROJECT HERE.
WE'LL PUT THE WINDOW TO THE
SIDE FOR A SECOND AND WE'LL
JUST TALK ABOUT THE KIND
OF INFILL SCREEN INFILL EDITION
.
I'M WONDERING IF ANYONE HAS ANY
QUESTIONS OR COMMENTS ON THAT
PORTION.
I HAD A QUESTION AND THEN WE'LL
GET TO COMMISSIONER ROSS.
MISS THATCHER, WE'VE GOT THE
NEW DOOR THAT'S GOING IN THAT
IS LIKE THAT SIXTEEN LIGHT OR
SOMETHING LIKE THAT AND THEN
IT'S MATCHING ANOTHER DOOR ON
THE SIDE.
DO WE KNOW THAT THAT IS THAT
OTHER DOOR THAT IS MATCHING A
MODERN DOOR OR I'M PRETTY SURE
THAT'S A WOOD DOOR BUT A LOT
OF WOOD DOOR DOOR I DON'T KNOW
DON'T YOU DON'T KNOW I DON'T
KNOW THAT ANYONE FROM THE
REVIEW COMMITTEE RECALL IF THAT
SIDE DOOR IS HISTORIC OR YEAH.
OK.
YEAH WELL LET'S MOVE ON THEN.
COMMISSIONER ROSS WHAT WAS YOUR
COMMENT QUESTION.
>> I MEAN SO EVIDENCE QUESTION
THE STAFF DO YOU DO YOU HAVE AN
IDEA OF WHAT THE PERIOD
OF SIGNIFICANCE IS FOR THIS
DISTRICT UP TOP OF YOUR HEAD
THEY ALL END IN 1944.
FORTY FOUR AND THEN I GUESS
LIKE THEN THE FOLLOW UP
QUESTION AND I GUESS IS JUST
GENERALLY SO THE LIGHT'S GREEN
INFILL AS WE SEE IT TODAY WAS
THAT ADDED AFTER THE PERIOD
OF SIGNIFICANCE OR DO YOU THINK
DURING WHAT'S THE QUESTION WE
HAVE NO WAY OF KNOWING THAT
WITH THE INFORMATION THAT WE
HAVE ABOUT THIS SO FAR IT IT IT
WAS NOT COMMON TO SCREEN IN
PORCHES IN THIS WAY.
>> I WOULDN'T ASSUME THAT IT
WAS PRETTY NINETEEN FORTY FIVE
I DON'T KNOW WHY JUST FROM WHAT
I'VE SEEN ON OTHER SCREEN
PORCHES AND YOUR OWN WEBSITE
AND IN ALL OF ANTAEUS HISTORIC
DISTRICTS IT'S PRETTY RARE THAT
YOU SEE ERM SCREENED IN THIS IS
YOU KNOW WHO KNOWS THERE COULD
HAVE BEEN SOMEBODY WHO DECIDED
TO DO THIS IN NINETEEN FORTY IF
YOU WE WERE LOOKING AT THE WOOD
AND I WAS COMMENTING ON THE
FOUR BY FOURS WHICH ARE PRETTY
PLAIN STANDARD FOR MY HORSE
THAT LOOK LIKE THERE WERE OR A
LOT OF COAT OF PAINT ON IT BUT
THEN WHEN I LOOKED EVEN CLOSER
IT'S JUST THAT THEY HADN'T
REALLY BEEN PROPERLY SCRAPED
AND YOU KNOW WHEN YOU PAINT
OVER STUFF THAT'S NOT SCRAPED
IT JUST LOOKS LIKE THERE'S A
LOT OF OLD PAINT ON IT.
WE REALLY ONLY LOOK LIKE THERE
WERE TWO COATS MAY NOT BE RIGHT
OR TWO COLORS I SHOULD SAY
OF PAINT ON IT.
SO I I DON'T I HAVE NO WAY
OF KNOWING FOR CERTAIN BUT MY
GUT REACTION TO STANDING IN
FRONT OF IT WAS THESE SCREENS
AND PANELS ARE NOT FROM VERY
SIGNIFICANT.
GOTCHA.
SO WE LIKE POSSIBLE BUT NOT
PROBABLE.
THAT'S A GOOD WAY TO PUT IT.
THANK YOU.
OK ARE THERE OTHER COMMENTS ON
THE PORCH, THE INFILL PORCH?
>> YEAH JUST ONE QUESTION.
IT'S NOT SO MUCH ABOUT THIS
PORCH BUT IN GENERAL SO I THINK
GOING TO THE QUESTION OF THE
APPLICANT LEFT US WITH WHICH IS
THEY'D LOVE TO MOVE THE WINDOWS
TO BE SOMETHING MORE SIMILAR TO
THE REST OF THE HOUSE AND WERE
THIS AN ADDITION?
I THINK THAT WOULD BE SOMETHING
THAT WE WERE WE I THINK THE
WORK WOULD BE RESISTANT TO
BECAUSE IT WOULD IT WOULD NOT
SERVE TO DIFFERENTIATE A NEW
FROM THE OLD.
BUT IN THIS CASE IT'S NOT AN
ADDITION.
>> IT IS AN ADDITION IN
YEAH, EVEN THOUGH WE'RE USING
ADDITION.
THE SAME ROOF, THE SAME
YEAH, EVEN THOUGH WE'RE USING
FOOTPRINT WE WOULD WE WOULD TRY
THE SAME ROOF, THE SAME
TO USE THIS THAT SAME
FOOTPRINT WE WOULD WE WOULD TRY
METHODOLOGY THE STANDARDS ARE
TO USE THIS THAT SAME
SO FLEXIBLE.
METHODOLOGY THE STANDARDS ARE
I THINK IT'S SO LATE YOU HAVE
SO FLEXIBLE.
TO PICK THE STANDARDS THAT FIT
I THINK IT'S SO LATE YOU HAVE
BEST AND I THINK THAT IS THAT
TO PICK THE STANDARDS THAT FIT
WOULD YOU MEAN THAT IS IN
BEST AND I THINK THAT IS THAT
ADDITION BASICALLY THE STANDARD
WOULD YOU MEAN THAT IS IN
FOR ADDITIONS FIT THIS THE BEST
ADDITION BASICALLY THE STANDARD
SO THEREFORE IT IS ADDING FLOOR
FOR ADDITIONS FIT THIS THE BEST
AREA TO THE HOUSE THAT DOES NOT
SO THEREFORE IT IS ADDING FLOOR
EXIST CURRENTLY
WHICH IS KIND
OF WHY I CALL IT IN ADDITION
ALSO
TO YEAH.
AND IT'S AN INFILL EDITION IN
MY MIND ADDITION.
YEAH.
I MEAN AND I THINK I THINK THE
APPROACH MAKES SENSE AS WELL
BECAUSE SINCE THERE ARE STILL
ORIGINAL PORTIONS REMAINING
LIKE THIRTY YEARS IT SHOULD BE
CLEAR TO WHOMEVER THAT HEY THIS
OK THESE ARE THE ORIGINAL
VERSIONS OF THE PORCH VERSUS
CLEARLY LIKE SIMILAR TO THE
DISCUSSION RIGHT NOW WE'RE
HAVING AROUND THE SCREENS LIKE
YEAH IT'LL BE CLEAR WHAT WAS
ADDED MORE RECENTLY VERSUS THE
ORIGINAL PORTIONS OF THE
WINDOWS ARE A LITTLE DIFFERENT
THAN YEAH.
>> THE HISTORIC WINDOWS OF THE
HOUSE.
>> YEAH.
SO YOU'RE IN FAVOR OF KEEPING
IT SIX OVER ONE IS WHAT YOU'RE
SAYING TO DIFFERENTIATE IT FROM
ACTUALLY THE THE HOUSE IS SO
RIGHT SO YEAH SO THE SORRY
USING THE LIGHT CONFIGURATION
THAT IS DIFFERENT FROM THE
HISTORIC WINDOWS ON THE HOUSE
TO ME MAKES A LITTLE BIT MORE
SENSE BUT I THINK IT MAKES MORE
SENSE BUT IS IT ALSO CAN THEY
DIFFERENTIATE ANOTHER WAY IN
THIS INSTANCE IF THEY WANT TO
MATCH IT BUT THEY'RE GOING TO
THEY'RE GOING TO BE DOUBLE PANE
WINDOWS VERSUS SINGLE PANE AND
THEY'RE GOING TO BE SIMILAR
DIVIDED LIKE YEAH IT'S YEAH
YEAH.
I MEAN IT'S YEAH I MEAN IT
WOULD MAKE MORE SENSE IF THEY
DIFFERENTIATED THE LIGHT
PATTERN BUT IT'S NOT TO ME IT'S
NOT LIKE GOING TO KILL ME.
>> YEAH OK I'M NOT GOING TO OK
SO HOW DO OTHER PEOPLE FEEL
ABOUT THE NINE OVER ONE VERSUS
THE THE SIX OVER ONE.
IS ANYONE AGAINST NINE OVER ONE
STRONGLY ENOUGH THAT THEY'RE
GOING TO SAY THEY DON'T GET A
VOTE.
>> OK ALL RIGHT SO IT SOUNDS
LIKE WE'RE WE'RE OK WITH NINE
OVER ONE AND I GUESS WE CAN
AMEND THE MOTION WHEN WE GET
THERE.
BUT LET'S LET'S TALK ABOUT THE
REST OF IT FIRST.
ANY OTHER COMMENTS ON THE
INFILL EDITION PORTION OF THE
PROJECT?
OK, WE SAID EXACT VERSUS TRACKS
WHERE THAT WAS JUST A
MISSPEAKING AND WE'RE FINE WITH
EITHER ACTUALLY BUT SO WE'RE
MOVING AHEAD WITH AS IS
PROPOSED THERE AND SO REALLY
LET'S LET'S TALK ABOUT THE
WINDOW THEN I GUESS THE
QUESTION IS I MEAN THAT'S A
CHARACTER DEFINING FEATURE
OF THE HOUSE IF YOU REMOVE IT
IS IT IS DESTROYING THE
CHARACTER OF THE HOME IN SUCH A
WAY THAT THIS PROJECT NO LONGER
MEETS THE STANDARDS.
DOES ANYONE HAVE ANY OPINION ON
THAT?
THEY'D LIKE TO SHARE?
WELL, JUST THAT I GUESS THE
FACT THAT IT'S IN THE REAR
ELEVATION IS MOST BENEFICIAL
FOR ITS CASE AS MUCH AS I WOULD
NOT LIKE TO LOSE AN ORIGINAL
WINDOW, THAT'S THE IDEAL SPOT
TO DO IT.
YEAH, SO AND THEY'RE NOT
WIDENING.
YOU KNOW, THAT SEEMED A BIT
MORE I DON'T KNOW IF IT'S MORE
OR LESS INVASIVE.
YEAH.
THEY'RE NOT MAKING IT TWICE AS
BIG.
>> YEAH YEAH.
STILL WITHIN A DECENT SCALE I
GUESS.
YEAH I THINK WE WERE DISCUSSING
THAT IF THEY HAD COME TO US
WITH A PROPOSAL TO PUT THE
DECISION ON THE BACK OF A HOUSE
OR TO EXPAND THE PORCH ACROSS
THE BACK OF THE HOUSE WE HAVE
APPROVED THE REMOVAL OF REAR
WINDOWS BROADBRIDGE NO WINDOWS
FOR THOSE KINDS OF THINGS.
YEAH, THAT'S PRETTY MODEST.
YEAH.
IMPROVEMENT THE INTERIOR
USABILITY.
DOES ANYONE WANT TO ARGUE THE
COUNTER NOW?
GOOD.
OK, SO IT SOUNDS LIKE WE'VE
DECIDED THAT THAT LOSING THAT
CHARACTER DEFINING FEATURE IT'S
IT'S IT'S NOT GOING TO DESTROY
THE ENTIRE CHARACTER OF THE
HOUSE IN SUCH A WAY THAT WE'RE
AGAINST IT ANY OTHER COMMENTS
BEFORE WE MOVE TO A VOTE HERE?
>> OK, SYNON LET'S VOTE ALL
THOSE IN FAVOR OF THIS.
YES, SORRY WE GOT TO AMEND THE
MOTION.
>> THANK YOU MISS THATCHER.
OK, SO WHO ARE THOSE WINDOWS?
>> YES THE NINE OVER ONE VERSUS
SIX OVER ONE SO
MOVE THE
COMMISSION ISSUED CERTIFICATE
OF APPROPRIATENESS FOR THE
APPLICATION AT THREE NINE WITH
WILLIAM STREET CONTRIBUTING
PROPERTY IN THE OLD WEST SIDE
HISTORIC DISTRICT TO ENCLOSE A
REAR PORT REAR SCREEN PORCH AS
PROPOSED BUT WITH THE
AMENDMENTS TO THE WINDOWS TO BE
NINE OVER ONE AS OPPOSED TO SIX
OVER ONE SOUNDS GOOD.
I THINK THAT'S IT.
YEAH YEAH.
>> DID YOU GET THAT MISS
THATCHER?
I DID.
I DISTILLED IT A LITTLE BIT.
NO THAT'S ALL RIGHT.
OK YEAH VERY GOOD.
OK SO WITH THAT AMENDMENT TO
THE MOTION ALL THOSE IN FAVOR
PLEASE SAY YES YES YES ALL
THOSE OPPOSED PLEASE SAY NO.
OK THE MOTION CARRIES YOUR
APPLICATION HAS BEEN APPROVED.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
OK LET'S MOVE ON TO HEARING
FIVE EIGHT TWENTY E KINGSLY
MISS THATCHER WHEN YOU'RE READY
THE STAFF REPORT PLEASE ONE
MOMENT PLEASE TAKE YOUR
OK 820
E KINGSLEE STREET IS IN THE OLD
FOURTH WARD HISTORIC DISTRICT.
IT'S AT THE CORNER OF EAST
KINGSLY AND NORTH INGLES HOUSE
IS LISTED IN THE EIGHTEEN
NINETY FOUR AND NINETY SEVEN
CITY DIRECTORIES AS NUMBER
SIXTY SIX EAST KINGSLY THE HOME
OF LESTER E. PALMER AND A
STUDENT NAMED MISS MABEL PALMER
BOARDED THEIR HOUSE FEATURES
BRICK ON THE FIRST FLOOR AND
HALF TIMBERING THAT'S BEEN
PAINTED OVER UNFORTUNATELY WELL
ON THE SECOND FLOOR WITH EVE
BRACKETS THE FOUNDATION IS CUT
AND UNCUT STONE BLOCK AS ARE
THE TWO FRONT PORCHES ONE ON
EACH STREET SIDE OF THE CORNER
LOT.
YOU'RE LOOKING HERE AT THE
PHOTO OF THE INGLES SIDE HERE.
THIS IS THE KINGSLEE ELEVATION
.
UM, LET'S SEE THERE IS BOTH
PURCHASE OF PEDIMENTS ROOFS AND
HALF HEIGHT TAPERED ROUND
COLUMNS.
ALLISS GABLE ENDS FACED EAST
AND WEST A SMALLER GABLED WALL
DORMERS ON THE NORTH AND SOUTH
AFRICAN HGC APPROVAL TO
CONSTRUCT A BASEMENT EGRESS
WINDOW AND WELL ON THE SOUTH
ELEVATION BY MAINTAINING THE
WIDTH AND INCREASING THE DEPTH
OF AN EXISTING BASEMENT WINDOW
HOUSE.
IT'S RIGHT ACROSS THE STREET
FROM THE NEW U OF M NURSING
SCHOOL.
MM.
I SHOULDN'T CALL IT NEW BECAUSE
IT'S BEEN THERE FOR TWO YEARS
BUT SO THE WINDOW THAT THEY'RE
PROPOSING TO MAKE INTO AN
EGRESS WINDOW IS UNDERNEATH
THIS FIRE ESCAPE STAIR ALONG
THE DRIVEWAY.
IT'S THIS ONE RIGHT HERE.
OH RIGHT.
LOOKS LIKE IT HAS AN OCTOPUS
COMING OUT OF IT.
THERE ARE CURRENTLY I THINK
FIVE THINGS BEING VENTED OUT
OF THAT WINDOW WHICH IS NO
LONGER A WINDOW.
IT'S BOARDED UP THE PLAN IF
THIS BECAME AN EGRESS WINDOW
WOULD BE TO RELOCATE THIS
VENTING TO THIS WINDOW WHICH
YOU CAN JUST SEE A LITTLE BIT
OF UNDER THIS THE WINDOW ON THE
LEFT HERE IT CURRENTLY HAS ONE
OR TWO THINGS VENTED OUT OF IT
AND IS SIMILARLY MISSING GLASS
.
HERE'S ANOTHER VIEW OF THE ONE
THAT WOULD BE EXPANDED.
THERE'S THIS CONCRETE SLAB HERE
FOR THE AIR CONDITIONERS
OBVIOUSLY THAT WOULD HAVE TO BE
REMOVED PARTIALLY.
MM.
THIS IS JUST THE WINDOW THAT IS
CLOSER TO THE FRONT OF THE
HOUSE.
THIS IS WHAT THE REST OF THE
WINDOWS WOULD HAVE LOOKED LIKE.
THE GLASS IS BROKEN IN HERE AND
THERE'S A PIECE OF STYROFOAM ON
THE INSIDE.
SO I'M HOPING WHEN THEY
RENOVATE THE BASEMENT AND ARE
ADDING BEDROOMS THAT THEY WILL
TAKE SOME CARE TO PUT THIS
WINDOW BACK TOGETHER AND GET IT
SOME NEW GLAZING AND A STORM
WINDOW IF NECESSARY.
THIS IS THE ONE THAT THE
VENTING WOULD BE MOVED TO
BOARDED UP ONE VENT WENT OUT
OF THERE CURRENTLY DRAWING'S
SHOW FROM THE FROM THE KINGSLEY
STREET SIDE THERE'S THIS
STRANGE IT'S ONE OF THOSE
BASEMENT STAIRS GOING LIKE
STRAIGHT DOWN INTO THE FRONT
YARD AND THERE'S A DOOR GOING
INTO THE INTO THE FOUNDATION
INTO THE BASEMENT EXISTING IS
AN EFFICIENCY APARTMENT
PROPOSED IS TO ADD SOME
BEDROOMS.
COMBINE THIS WITH AN APARTMENT
THAT'S PARTIALLY ON THIS THE
GROUND FLOOR, THE MAIN FLOOR.
SO YOU WOULD HAVE SOME BEDROOMS
DOWNSTAIRS AND SOME BEDROOMS ON
THE MAIN FLOOR ON THE FIRST
FLOOR A SPIRAL STAIRCASE.
>> A SPIRAL STAIRCASE.
YEAH, THESE TWO EGRESS WINDOWS
EXISTING THEY LOOK A LITTLE
THEY'RE A LITTLE BIT OLD
FASHIONED FOR EGRESS WINDOWS.
THEY'VE BEEN MADE LARGER AND
THEY'RE SQUARE SO THERE'S NOT
ACTUALLY A WELL GOING DOWN.
THEY'RE JUST AT GREAT THEY'RE
JUST BIG SQUARE WINDOWS GRADE
BUT THOSE AREN'T SUPPOSED TO BE
TOUCHED THIS IS THE ONE WHERE
THE NEW WELL IS PROPOSED
UNDERNEATH THE EGRESS STAIR THE
FIRE ESCAPE AND THIS IS THAT
WINDOW THAT'S BUSTED OUT.
SO I SHOWED YOU THAT WOULD NOT
BE AN APPROPRIATE PLACE FOR A
WHILE RIGHT UP AT THE FRONT
CORNER OF THE HOUSE THERE ARE
DETAILS ON THE WELL.
IT'S GOT A DRAIN GOING DOWN.
I'VE READ TO YOU ALL OF THE
STANDARDS AND GUIDELINES AND
AGAIN THIS ONE WOULD BE MADE
MADE TALLER BY GOING DOWN THE
HILL WOULD BE LOWERED AND STAFF
RECOMMEND APPROVAL OF THE
APPLICATION.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
MISS THATCHER IT.
>> OK, SO NOW LET'S GO TO THE
REVIEW COMMITTEE
REPORT.
LET'S HEAR THE REPORT FROM THE
REVIEW COMMITTEE.
>> YEAH, I DON'T THINK THERE'S
ANYTHING TO ADD TO THE STAFF
REPORT.
YEAH, VERY GOOD.
THIS WAS AS INCONSPICUOUS OF A
PLACE AS YOU COULD PICK ON THIS
BUILDING TO PUT A NEGRESS
WINDOW.
YEAH, VERY WELL HIDDEN.
OK THEN LET'S MOVE ON TO
APPLICANT COMMENTS.
IS THE APPLICANT HERE GREAT
WITH THE APPLICANT?
PLEASE APPROACH THE PODIUM,
PROVIDE YOUR NAME AND ADDRESS
FOR THE RECORD AND LET US KNOW
IF YOU HAVE ANYTHING TO COMMENT
ON WHAT YOU HEARD FROM THE
STAFF REPORT THE REVIEW
COMMITTEE REPORT.
THANK YOU.
I'M ROB FOWLER.
I'M REPRESENTING THE OWNER
OF KINGSLEY.
LIKE JILL SAID, THIS WINDOW IS
BOARDED UP AND HAS BEEN COMING
OUT OF IT AND THOSE VENTS CAN
BE MOVED DOWN TO THE NEXT
WINDOWS BOARDED UP.
SO I'M GOING I THINK WE'RE
ACTUALLY TRYING TO IT'LL LOOK
BETTER THAN WHAT IT CURRENTLY
DOES.
YEAH, VERY GOOD.
AND THE REASON WE'RE DOING THIS
IS THROUGH A HOUSING INSPECTION
THEY WENT THROUGH THE RECORDS
AND AND THE BASEMENT WAS
APPROVED TO BE FINISHED IN THE
EIGHTIES PROVIDING IT WAS
CONNECTED TO THE OTHER
APARTMENTS NOT SO THERE
WOULDN'T BE A NEW UNIT.
SO MY OWNER BOUGHT THIS COUPLE
THREE YEARS GO.
SO IN ORDER TO MAKE THIS ALL
WORK THAT'S WHY THE CIRCULAR
STAIRS GOING TO APARTMENT TWO
UPSTAIRS THIS IS I'LL GIVE YOU
ONE UNIT AND WE'RE TRYING TO
RECOUP SOME OF THE COST AND THE
BEDROOM.
YEAH, VERY GOOD.
THANKS ROB.
ANY QUESTIONS FOR ROB NOW?
ALL I APPRECIATE IT AND THANK
YOU.
OK, SO WE'LL MOVE ON TO THE
PUBLIC HEARING
SO I'LL OPEN THE
PUBLIC HEARING FOR THIS ITEM
AND DOESN'T LOOK LIKE ANYONE
HERE IS FOR THE PUBLIC HEARING.
IS THERE ANYONE ONLINE?
IS THAT THATCHER WORK IN THE
ZOOM ROOM DOING DOUBLE DUTY
TONIGHT.
>> WE APPRECIATE IT.
THANK NOBODY IN THE ZUMAR SO I
KEEP FORGETTING TO PAY
ATTENTION.
YEAH, THERE'S STILL NOBODY IN
THE SAME THAT WE'RE GOOD.
>> OF THE THOUSANDS OF PEOPLE
IN THIS ROOM ROOM NO ONE IS
APPROACHING.
NO ONE HAS THEIR HAND RAISED SO
LET'S CLOSE THE PUBLIC HEARING
PORTION OF THIS APPLICATION AND
GO TO ASK A COMMISSIONER THEY
WOULD LIKE TO MAKE A MOTION WE
WERE OK.
I MOVE THAT THE COMMISSION
ISSUED CERTIFICATE
OF APPROPRIATENESS FOR THE
APPLICATION OF EIGHT E STREET
CONTRIBUTING PROPERTY TO THE
OLD FOURTH WARD HISTORIC
DISTRICT TO ENLARGE AN EXISTING
PLACEMENT WINDOW AND INSTALL AN
EGRESS WINDOW AND WELL ON THE S
ELEVATION AS PROPOSED THE WORK
IS COMPATIBLE IN EXTERIOR
DESIGN ARRANGEMENT MATERIALS IN
RELATIONSHIP TO THE HOUSE AND
THE SURROUNDING AREA AND MEET
THE SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR
STANDARDS FOR REHABILITATION
AND GUIDELINES FOR
REHABILITATING HISTORIC
BUILDINGS IN PARTICULAR
STANDARDS TO NINE AND TEN AND
THE GUIDELINES FOR BUILDING
SITE WINDOWS AND HEALTH AND
SAFETY AS WELL.
>> THE INTERIOR HISTORIC
DISTRICT DESIGN GUIDELINES.
THANK YOU.
THAT WAS MOVED BY COMMISSIONER
KAPLIN AND SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER DE HONO.
IS THERE ANY DISCUSSION ON THE
MOTION?
>> DID WE SEE WHAT KIND
OF WINDOW WAS GOING IN HERE?
OH OH I HAD THAT I THOUGHT I
MIGHT HAVE JUST NOT TO PUT I C
SECTIONS BUT NO.
ALL RIGHT, LET ME LOOK AT THE
YES THERE'S INFORMATION BUT LET
ME LOOK AT OK SO MANY EGRESSED
WITH THIS CAN BE EXTREMELY YEAH
.
OH I THINK I ASKED ROB THIS VIA
EMAIL AND IT'S A GOOD CASE IT'S
THOUGH CORRECT.
>> YEAH THE CLOUD WOULD CLAD
WOULD KASEMAN YEAH.
YEAH THANK YOU.
OK
ANY DISCUSSION ABOUT
EXPECTING ANY BECAUSE THIS IS
VERY STRAIGHTFORWARD SO LET'S
LET'S GO TO A VOTE ALL THOSE IN
FAVOR OF THE MOTION PLEASE SAY
YES.
>> YES ALL THOSE OPPOSED PLEASE
SAY NO THE MOTION CARRIES YOUR
APPLICATION HAS BEEN APPROVED I
THINK.
THANKS ROB.
>> OK, MOVING ON TO THE LAST
HEARING OF THE EVENING.
THIS IS F SIX EIGHT OH EIGHT W
WASHINGTON STAFF REPORT WHEN
YOU'RE READY MISS STACHOWICZ
DOWN HERE EIGHT EIGHT W
WASHINGTON IS IN THE OLD WEST
SIDE HISTORIC DISTRICT FIRST
APPEARS IN CITY DIRECTORIES IN
NINETEEN HUNDRED AS THE HOME
OF BUTCHER WILHELM SEEFRIED
THIS HOUSE AND ITS TWO
NEIGHBORS TO THE WEST EIGHT, 12
AND 18 WHICH WERE ALSO BUILT IN
NINETEEN HUNDRED WERE EXTREMELY
SIMILAR IN DESIGN DETAILING IN
FENESTRATION PATTERN EIGHTY
EIGHT FEATURES A CUT STONE
FOUNDATION FULL WITH FRONT
PORCH WITH NON ORIGINAL TERN
POSTS AND ORNATE BRACKETS.
>> THIS IS APPROVED BY THE
HISTORIC DISTRICT COMMISSION AN
EARLY APPROVAL TO RECREATE THE
PORCH BUT BASED ON THE
NEIGHBOR'S PORCH I COULDN'T SEE
ANYTHING IN THE RECORDS THAT
INDICATED THAT THEY ACTUALLY
KNEW THAT USED TO LOOK LIKE
THIS BUT IT'S EXTREMELY
COMPATIBLE WITH THE NEIGHBORS
HOUSE BECAUSE IT WAS GOT BEAT
OFF OF IT HAS STEEPLY PITCHED
ROOF WITH CORNER RETURNS ONE
OVER ONE WINDOWS AND A FIRST
FLOOR OUT NEAR THE REAR OF THE
WEST ELEVATION.
IT'S ON THE NORTH SIDE OF WEST
WASHINGTON BETWEEN MULHOLLAND
AND S SEVENTH STREET AND THE
SEEKING APPROVAL TO CONSTRUCT A
NEW GARAGE WITH A CONCRETE
APRON INSTALL A CASEMENT WINDOW
WITH A FALSE BUTTON IN THE REAR
FACING ATTIC GABLE TO ME EGRESS
REQUIREMENTS AND EXTEND THE
WEST WASHINGTON DRIVEWAY TO THE
BACK OF THE HOUSE.
ALL RIGHT.
RIGHT NOW THERE IS A ONE CAR
PARKING SPACE EXACTLY WHERE
THIS CAR PARKED ITS NARROW BUT
IT IS PAVED AND IT'S JUST
GRANDFATHERED IN.
IT'S NOT A LEGAL PARKING SPACE
RIGHT DEFINITIONS BUT IT'S
THERE AND IT CAN STAY AND IT'S
FINE.
PART OF THE PROPOSAL IS TO
EXTEND THE DRIVEWAY STRAIGHT
BACK.
YOU CAN SEE THAT THERE'S A
THERE'S A LARGE LANDMARK TREE
HERE THAT DOES APPEAR ON THE
NINETEEN FORTY SEVEN AERIAL
PHOTO.
SO IT IS A HISTORIC FEATURE
OF THE LANDSCAPE.
SO ANY DRIVEWAY THAT WENT
YOU'RE ON THE SIDE WOULD NEED
TO AVOID THAT TREE.
HERE'S WHAT IT LOOKS LIKE NOW.
THERE HAVE BEEN ONGOING
CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS AT THIS
HOUSE.
IT'S CURRENTLY GUTTED IT WAS
SOLD TO THE NEW OWNER THAT WAY
,YOU KNOW, ONE OF THESE SORT
OF A HALF TON PROJECT I WENT
OUT THE SITE A COUPLE OF YEARS
AGO WHEN THEY STARTED THE WORK
AND THEN IT LANGUISHED AND NOW
WE HAVE A NEW OWNER WHO IS
HOPING TO COMPLETE THE WORK SO
THEY'RE TRYING TO GET THERE.
>> SO THERE'S GRAVEL HERE AND
THERE HAVE BEEN CONSTRUCTION
VEHICLES AND THINGS IN THIS
SIDE YARD BUT I COULDN'T FIND
EVIDENCE IN ANY AERIAL PHOTOS
THAT IT HAS BEEN USED AS A
PARKING AREA PER SAY JUST THAT
FIRST PAVED SPACE.
NOW WE'RE LOOKING AT THE BACK
OF THE HOUSE.
THERE'S THAT CAR IN THE SPACE
UP FRONT.
THIS IS A PAD THAT HAS A
RETAINING WALL ON THE BACK HERE
AND A LITTLE BIT HERE ON THE
SIDE THAT ALLOWS CAR PARKING OR
WHAT HAVE YOU OFF OF AND AN
INFORMAL ALLEY THAT RUNS
BETWEEN WEST HERE ON STREET AND
WEST WASHINGTON STREET PARALLEL
TO IT.
>> IT'S A LITTLE BIT OF A
STRANGE SITUATION BECAUSE THIS
IS A THERE IS A PARCEL THERE A
VERY NARROW LONG CASTLE THAT'S
OWNED BY THE CITY BUT IT IS
LANDLOCKED.
SO IN ORDER TO ACCESS THAT YOU
HAVE TO GO ACROSS SOMEBODY
ELSE'S PROPERTY.
EITHER ONE OF THESE TWO HOUSES
ON THE FAR RIGHT HERE THIS IS A
BIG MULTIFAMILY HOUSE GOT AN
AWARD A FEW YEARS AGO THAT BOTH
OF THEM HAVE DRIVEWAYS THAT CAN
CONNECT TO THIS ONE SO THE HGC
DOESN'T HAVE TO WORRY ABOUT
THAT.
THE OWNER WANTS TO PUT UP A
GARAGE, HAS TO WORRY ABOUT
GETTING ACCESS TO IT BUT THIS
IS THE THE THE QUITE LOVELY
PLACE A PARKED CAR OR TO BUILD
A PROPOSED GARAGE
IF IT'S YOU
KNOW, IT'S ALWAYS HARD TO SEE
SLOPE'S IN PHOTOS BUT THERE'S
ABOUT FIVE FOOT ALMOST SHEER
DROP RIGHT HERE OR THIS IVY IS
AND THESE STONES AT SOME POINT
THE BACKYARD WAS LEVELED UP TOP
AND THEN DOWN BELOW AND THERE
ARE A COUPLE OF CONCRETE STAIRS
THAT YOU CAN GET FROM ONE LEVEL
TO THE OTHER BEHIND THE BACK
DOOR.
SO IT'S NOT FEASIBLE TO RUN A
DRIVEWAY FROM WEST WASHINGTON
TO THE BACK HERE.
YOU JUST CAN'T GET UP THAT
WITHOUT REGRADING THE ENTIRE
YARD.
THIS IS WHAT IT LOOKS LIKE IF
YOU'RE STANDING IN BACK OF THAT
THAT THAT THAT FLAT SQUARE AREA
THAT I WAS JUST TELLING YOU
ABOUT THIS IS LOOKING TOWARD
THE TWO HOUSES THAT I WAS JUST
POINTING OUT WHERE OTHER PEOPLE
SEEM TO GET EGRESS TO THIS SORT
OF INFORMAL ALLEY.
THERE ARE A COUPLE OF HOUSES I
SAW CARS THAT DO USE IT.
THIS GARAGE LOOKS LIKE IT
HASN'T BEEN USED IN A LONG
TIME.
THIS GARAGE DOESN'T FACE THE
ALLEY BUT AGAIN AERIAL PHOTOS
SHOW CARS HERE AND THERE.
IT'S NOT LIKE THIS IS A BIG
PARKING LOT OR ANYTHING.
>> ALL RIGHT.
THE PROPOSED ONE STOREY GARAGES
HERE IN THE BACK IT'S A TWO CAR
GARAGE.
IT'S THAT YOU KNOW, BASIC I
THINK 20 BY 20 FOOT THAT YOU
NEED TO GET A TWO CAR GARAGE
HAS A ROLL UP DOOR THAT'LL SHOW
YOU IN A SEC.
>> YOU CAN SEE HERE WHERE WE GO
I CAN'T QUITE READ THESE
ELEVATIONS BUT GOES FROM THREE
TWENTY SOMETHING UP TO THREE
THIRTY THAT'S THAT DROP OFF I'M
SORRY EIGHT EIGHT THIRTY HERE'S
EIGHT THIRTY TWO AND THESE ARE
THOSE LITTLE CONCRETE STAIRS
THAT I DESCRIBED A SECOND AGO.
ANOTHER PIECE OF THE
APPLICATION IS TO ENLARGE THE
DRIVEWAY AND PUSH IT ALL THE
WAY TO THE BACK CORNER OF THE
HOUSE AND IT WOULD BE TEN AND A
HALF FEET WIDE.
THE TREE IS NOT SHOWN ON HERE
SO IT WOULD NEED TO BE SHOWN
SOMEHOW IF A NEW CONCRETE
DRIVEWAY WAS AMENDABLE TO THE
COMMISSION.
YOU COULD CERTAINLY MOVE AROUND
IT.
THERE'S ENOUGH WIDTH TO AVOID
THE TREE IF YOU NEEDED TO
GARAGE IS PRETTY TYPICAL
STRAIGHTFORWARD CONSTRUCTION 22
BY 22 IS A FOOTPRINT ROLL-UP
DOOR PLATE DOOR.
THERE WAS THERE'S A WHOLE
CATALOG PROVIDED I DON'T KNOW
IF THIS PARTICULAR DOOR WAS IN
THE CATALOG BUT I THINK THEY
WERE MOSTLY WOOD DOORS IN THE
BACK.
WE'VE GOT WINDOWS WE DISCUSSED
THE REVIEW COMMITTEE THAT THE
SIDING IS PROPOSED TO BE VINYL
ON THE GARAGE WHICH IS
PERFECTLY APPROPRIATE FOR A NEW
BUILDING AWAY IN THE BACKYARD.
THAT'S NOT TRYING TO BE
HISTORIC, IS NOT A RESTORATION,
IS NOT A RE CREATION AND WE
TALKED ABOUT HOW IT WOULD BE
APPROPRIATE TO USE CLAD WINDOWS
THERE INSTEAD OF WOOD WINDOWS.
BUT RIGHT NOW THEY'RE SUPPOSED
TO BE WOOD.
BUT WHAT WOULD HAPPEN IF THAT
GOT APPROVED ONCE THE
APPLICANTS FIND INFORMATION NEW
WINDOWS THEY COULD BE FOR STAFF
APPROVAL BECAUSE THIS IS NOT A
REVIEW STRUCTURE AND THEY COULD
JUST SWAP OUT WINDOWS FOR THE
WOOD WINDOWS.
THERE'S A PERSON DOOR ON THE
SIDE OF AND THE LAST BIT OF THE
APPLICATION IS TO INSTALL A
CASEMENT WINDOW WITH A FALSE
ACROSS THE MIDDLE TO MAKE IT
LOOK MORE LIKE ONE OVER ONE
WINDOW UP HERE IN THE ATTIC.
THIS IS A PERFECT PLACE TO ADD
AN EGRESS WINDOW.
IT'S ON THE BACK OF THE HOUSE.
IT'S ON THE SECOND HALF FLOOR.
IT'S NOT VISIBLE FROM ANYWHERE
EXCEPT CERTAIN VANTAGE POINTS
IN THE BACKYARD.
SO AS FAR AS WINDOWS GO, I
THINK THAT THIS IS A VERY
APPROPRIATE LOCATION AND SAME
THING THEY'RE PROPOSING A WOOD
WINDOW WOULD PREFER A CLOUD
WINDOW AND WE'LL WE'LL DEAL
WITH THAT IF IF THE APPLICATION
GETS THERE'S A WINDOW
INFORMATION PROVIDED.
ALL RIGHT.
FROM THE SECRETARY INTERIOR
STANDARDS I READ TO YOU TO A
NINE AND TEN ALREADY FROM THE
GUIDELINES FOR A BUILDING SITE
IT'S RECOMMENDED TO DESIGN
EXTERIOR EDITIONS TO START
BUILDINGS OR ADJACENT NEW
CONSTRUCTION WHICH IS
COMPATIBLE TO THE HISTORIC
CHARACTER OF THE SITE AND WHICH
PRESERVES THE HISTORIC
RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN THE
BUILDING BUILDING'S LANDSCAPE
FEATURES AND OPEN SPACE
RECOMMENDED IS FOR WINDOWS IS
DESIGNING AND INSTALLING
ADDITIONAL WINDOWS ON RIR OR
NON CHARACTER DEFINING
ELEVATIONS IF REQUIRED BY THE
NEW USE FROM THE INTERIOR
HISTORIC DISTRICT DESIGN
GUIDELINES FOR RESIDENTIAL
ACCESSORY STRUCTURES, IT'S NOT
APPROPRIATE TO INTRODUCE NEW
STRUCTURES THAT ARE OUT
OF SCALE THE PROPERTY OR THE
DISTRICT OR OTHERWISE
INAPPROPRIATE.
IT'S NOT APPROPRIATE TO REMOVE
HISTORIC STRUCTURES.
NO SORRY THAT THAT DOESN'T NEED
TO BE IN THERE.
THAT DOESN'T APPLY.
LET ME CHECK MY NOTES BECAUSE I
SHOULD HAVE I SHOULD HAVE SOME
I SHOULD HAVE SOMETHING FOR THE
GUIDELINES ON PAVING THE NO I
GUESS I WAS JUST USING THE
LANDSCAPE FEATURES INTRODUCING
NEW SITE FEATURES THAT ARE OUT
OF SCALE OF THE PROPERTY OR THE
DISTRICT OR OTHERWISE
INAPPROPRIATE BECAUSE I DO HAVE
SERIOUS CONCERNS ABOUT
EXTENDING THE DRIVEWAY THIS
TRADITIONALLY WAS ACCESSED FROM
THE BACK OF THE HOUSE.
I REALIZED THAT OR MAYBE ISSUES
WITH THAT BUT WE DO NOT KNOW
WHETHER OR NOT THOSE ARE
RESOLVABLE AT THIS TIME.
THEY'RE PROPOSING TO PUT A TWO
GARAGE THERE SO THAT WOULD PARK
TWO CARS AND THEN WHERE YOU
COULD POTENTIALLY STACK AT
LEAST THREE CARS IN IF NOT FOR
WHERE THERE HAVE NOT EVER BEEN
CARS PARKED CONSISTENTLY IN THE
SIDE YARD BETWEEN TWO HOUSES.
A MUCH MORE HISTORICALLY
ACCURATE THING WOULD BE TO
CLOSE AT CURB AND NOT HAVE THAT
LITTLE OF DRIVEWAY AND JUST
MOVE THE CARS TO THE BACK YARD
.
STAFF BELIEVES THAT THE CHANGE
TO THE SIDE YARD IS MORE
VISIBLE AND DETRIMENTAL THE
PROPERTY AND NEIGHBORING
PROPERTIES AND THE LANDMARK
TREE THAN THE CONSTRUCTION
OF THE GARAGE.
SO ESSENTIALLY IT'S IT'S I
THINK IT'S NOT ONLY
INAPPROPRIATE BUT IT'S ALSO
OVERKILL TO NEED PARKING FOR
FIVE OR SIX VEHICLES.
THREE OR FOUR OF THOSE ARE IN A
LOCATION THAT HAS NEVER HAD A
SIDE YARD PARKING BEFORE AND I
THINK THAT THAT'S DEFINITELY AN
ALTERATION TO THE LANDSCAPE
WHETHER OR NOT THE TREE IS
REMOVED.
SO THAT COMPLETES STAFF REPORT.
I HAVE NO ISSUES WITH THE
GARAGE AND ATTIC WINDOW.
I THINK THAT THOSE ARE BOTH
APPROPRIATE AND MEET THE
STANDARDS AND GUIDELINES.
THANK THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
OK, LET'S MOVE ON TO THE REVIEW
COMMITTEE REPORT COMMISSIONERS
.
THAT'S YOUR REPORT
REALLY, REALLY INTERESTING
PROPERTY IN THE BACK WITH THIS
BIZARRE PATH THAT GOES BETWEEN
OTHER HOUSES IT LOOKS LIKE
THERE WAS SOME SORT I THINK I
MEAN, JILL, YOU KNOW, PROBABLY
THE THAT WAS MORE THAN JUST A
RAISED PAD, WAS IT NOT THE
FOOTINGS OF SOME OTHER
STRUCTURE BEFORE?
>> NO, NO STRUCTURE WAS EVER
SHOWN THERE.
SANDBORN GOING BACK TO THE
1960.
YEAH.
YEAH, YEAH.
THAT SEEMS LIKE A LOGICAL PLACE
TO PUT YEAH.
THANK YOU AND IT'S A VERY PLOT
.
IT'S YEAH THAT'S RIGHT IT
ANYTHING ELSE OK THANK YOU.
I WOULD THE APPLICANT PLEASE
APPROACH THE MICROPHONE PROVIDE
YOUR NAME AND ADDRESS FOR THE
RECORD AND COMMENT ON WHAT
YOU'VE HEARD SO FAR.
THANK YOU.
YES I'M CHECKING OUT MY I'M
HERE REPRESENTING KEVIN YOU AND
THIS IS KEVIN FUKEN THEY WERE
FOLLOWING ME SO I THINK YOU'VE
COVERED EVERYTHING IN THE STAFF
REPORT EXCEPT FOR A COUPLE
OF QUICK THINGS I WOULD JUST
SAY.
ONE IS THAT THE EXTENDED
DRIVEWAY WAS SORT OF A LATE
EDITION AND THE TREE WAS NEVER
ON OUR CIVIL SURVEY SO I
COULDN'T DIRECTED AROUND A
TREE.
I DIDN'T KNOW EXACTLY WHERE IT
IS BUT WE CAN DIRECT IT AROUND
THE TREE IF YOU ALL FEEL LIKE
WE CAN DO THIS.
AND ALSO I WOULD SAY THAT THE
THE DRIVEWAY AS IT ENTERS A
SITE AND ALSO THERE IS NO TOPOS
ON THE FRONT OF THIS ON THE
SHOW ON THE FRONT OF THE HOUSE.
IT'S ALSO AS YOU CAN SEE FROM
THE PHOTOGRAPHS OF THE
RELATIVELY STEEP CLIMB UP THERE
AND ALSO THE CITY DOESN'T ALLOW
US TO PARK IN THE FRONT SET
BACK.
SO FOR THE CAR TO GET UP TO A
LEVEL GROUND IT WOULD BE WELL
BEHIND THE FRONT FACE OF THE
HOUSE AND THAT'S THE FIRST
POINT THAT IT GETS TO BE LEVEL.
BUT THE SPORT DOESN'T WANT THAT
DRIVEWAY.
YOU KNOW, WE CAN BACK AWAY YOU
ONE OF THE QUESTIONS I HAD WAS
CAN YOU MOVE OVER TO THE
MICROPHONES?
SO WE GOT IT.
YEAH.
YES.
IT'S KIND OF KEVIN, THE OWNER
OF THE PROPERTY OF MY CONCERN
WAS THAT SHE SAID IT WAS
OVERKILL BUT AS YOU NOTICE ON
THAT STREET THERE'S A LOT
OF PARKING AND THERE'S
DESIGNATED PARKING ON THE
STREET FOR THAT HOUSE YOU'D
HAVE TO PARK EITHER IN THE
DRIVE OR IF THERE WAS A
DRIVEWAY AND BACK YOU COULD
PARK THERE.
NOW WE'RE NOT SURE ABOUT ACCESS
IN THE FUTURE FOR THERE BEING
ACCESS TO GET BACK TO THAT
DRIVEWAY OR THAT PART OF THE
BACK.
SO THAT'S A CONCERN THAT WE
HAVE MOVING FORWARD.
SO IT WOULD MAKE MORE SENSE TO
ME TO AT LEAST HAVE SOME SORT
OF PARKING THAT WE KNOW WAS
DEDICATED TO THAT HOUSE OFF
STREET AND CLOSE TO THE HOUSE.
IF WE COULDN'T DO A FULL DRIVE,
MAYBE WE COULD DO SOMETHING
MAYBE A HALF IN A TREE.
I'M NOT SURE ON OUR PROPERTY WE
TRY TO FIGURE THAT OUT BUT IT
LOOKS LIKE IT MAY BELONG TO THE
NEIGHBORS SO WE WOULDN'T BE
ABLE TO MOVE IT ANYWAY WITHOUT
THEIR PERMISSION, YOU KNOW?
OK, ALL RIGHT.
ARE THERE ANY QUESTIONS?
WELL, THANK YOU BOTH.
ARE THERE QUESTIONS THE
APPLICANTS YEAH.
>> I JUST COULD YOU CLARIFY HOW
THE THAT WEIRD ALLEY BACK THERE
HOW DO YOU ACT LIKE IF I WANTED
TO PARK THERE OR YOU WANTED TO
PARKING GARAGES THAT ALLEY I
COUNTED THREE REACTORS BUT THAT
WAS ONE THAT WAS SAID IT WAS
MARKED PRIVATE DRIVE FOR THE
ALLEY.
IT WAS CLEARLY MARKED AND IT
WAS ACCESSED ON WEST WASHINGTON
COMING BACK TO THE ALLEY AND IT
WAS MARKED IN THE ALLEY FOR THE
NEIGHBORS IT'S A PRIVATE DRIVE
SO SO IT'S LIKE THIS MIDPOINT
IT'S ACCESS FROM BOTH HURON AND
WASHINGTON.
OK, LOOKS LIKE IT'S ALONG THE
UTILITY RIGHT OF WAY THERE.
THE GRAVEL PORTION YOU KNOW, I
DON'T KNOW I'VE TALKED ALL
THOSE NUMBERS OVER THE YEARS
ABOUT WHAT GOES ON IN THAT
DRIVEWAY.
IT'S YOU KNOW, IT'S A LITTLE
QUIRK.
YEAH.
IT'S GOT SPEED BUMPS TO
DISCOURAGE THROUGH TRAFFIC SO
YOU KNOW BUT IT'S EASILY
ACCESSIBLE.
IT'S OPEN.
YOU CAN GET, YOU KNOW, BIG
VEHICLES BACK.
THERE IS NO ONE THERE IS ONE ON
WEST WASHINGTON AS WELL.
DID YOU SEE THAT ONE?
YEAH, THERE'S ONE IT GOES ALL
THE WAY BACK.
IT'S PAVED LIKE IT'S ASPHALT
DRIVE ALL THE WAY BACK TO WEST
WASHINGTON TO WASHINGTON TO THE
TO THE ALLEY AND THAT'S WHEN
SOMEONE'S PRIVATE PROPERTY IN
THIS MARKET SAY THAT IT'S A
PRIVATE DRIVE.
IT'S A PRIVATE SITE, IT IS FREE
FOR US TO DRIVE THROUGH.
IT GIVES US PERMISSION TO DRIVE
FROM TEXAS THAT WAY.
SO IN THEORY, YES, YOU CAN
DRIVE BUT NEVER COULD.
THANK YOU FOR THE CLARIFICATION
BUT YOU HAVE TO THINK ABOUT
THESE KIND OF YOU KNOW, YOU
BETTER BRING THOSE PEOPLE
COOKIES.
>> HOW MANY HOW MANY YOU'RE IN
THE PROCESS AS I UNDERSTAND
OF RENOVATING THE INTERIOR
OF THE HOUSE AS WELL HOW WE AS
THREE CURRENTLY HAS THREE.
WE HAVE THREE AND THAT'S
BECAUSE MAYBE THERE MAY BE ONE
WAY ADDED WE'RE TRYING TO
FIGURE THAT OUT NOW IT COULD BE
MORE THAN FOUR AND WE'RE ADDING
ANOTHER BATHROOM.
>> OK, SO
OTHER QUESTIONS AT
THE MOMENT.
>> OK, WE MIGHT HAVE SOME MORE
QUESTIONS IN THE FUTURE BUT I
JUST HOLD ON ONE SECOND.
WE'VE GOT TO DO THE PUBLIC
HEARING AND AND SO LET'S OPEN
THE PUBLIC HEARING FOR THIS
ITEM.
>> THERE'S NO ONE HERE AND I'M
GUESSING THERE'S NO ONE ON
ZOOM.
SO LET'S CLOSE THE PUBLIC
HEARING AND WOULD ANY
COMMISSIONER LIKE TO MAKE A
MOTION ON THIS APPLICATION?
WE'LL JUST SPLIT THE MOTIONS UP
.
DO WE WANT TO DO THE LET'S THE
WINDOW LET'S DO THE FIRST ONE
AROUND AND THEN YOU DEAL WITH
THE OTHER ONE.
YEAH, GREAT IDEA.
SO THAT FIRST MOTION THERE CAN
SOMEBODY YEAH.
>> DENHA THANK YOU.
I MOVE THE COMMISSION ISSUE A
CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS
FOR THE APPLICATION AT EIGHT
WEST WASHINGTON STREET A
CONTRIBUTING PROPERTY THE OLD
WEST SIDE HISTORIC DISTRICT TO
CONSTRUCT A GARAGE WITH A
CONCRETE APRON AND INSTALL A
CASEMENT WINDOW WITH A FALSE
MOUNTAIN IN THE REAR FACING
ATTIC ABLE TO MEET EGRESS
REQUIREMENTS AS PROPOSED.
THE WORK IS COMPATIBLE IN
EXTERIOR DESIGN ARRANGEMENT
TEXTURE MATERIAL IN
RELATIONSHIP TO THE REST OF THE
BUILDING IN THE SURROUNDING
AREA AND MEETS ANN ARBOR
HISTORIC DISTRICT DESIGN
GUIDELINES ESPECIALLY THOSE FOR
WINDOWS SAFETY CODES AND
RESIDENTIAL ACCESSORY
STRUCTURES AND THE SECRETARY
OF THE INTERIOR STANDARDS FOR
REHABILITATION AND GUIDELINES
FOR REHABILITATING HISTORIC
BUILDINGS IN PARTICULAR
STANDARDS TO NINE TEN AND THE
GUIDELINES FOR WINDOWS
NEIGHBORHOOD SETTING AND HEALTH
AND SAFETY CODES SECOND RATE
THAT WAS MOVED BY COMMISSIONER
FORTNER AND SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER CALDERON.
SO WE'VE GOT TWO MAIN PORTIONS
THAT MOTION.
ONE IS THE GARAGE, THE NEW
CONSTRUCTION GARAGE AND ONE IS
THE EGRESS WINDOW IN THE ATTIC
.
>> SO ARE THERE ANY QUESTIONS
OR COMMENTS ON EITHER OF THOSE
ITEMS?
CHUCK, I HAD A QUESTION FOR YOU
ACTUALLY SORRY TO MAKE YOU COME
BACK UP BUT JUST THE THE ONE I
WAS LOOKING AT THE ELEVATIONS I
WAS SURPRISED BY LOOKING AT
THEM THAT WAS A VINYL MATERIAL
SO IT WASN'T I WASN'T SURPRISED
BY THE VINYL BUT IT JUST IT
READS AS LIKE A WOOD.
YOU CAN BUY THE VINYL AS A WITH
A SKINNY GOT IT.
SO IT'S A SKINNY VINYL AND THEN
THERE'S QUARTER BOARDS, THERE'S
VINYL THAT LOOKS LIKE CORNER
BOARDS AS WELL AS A SKIRT BOARD
IS THAT WE'RE NOT GOING TO USE
VINYL AS THE SKIRT BOARDS.
THERE'S OTHER SYNTHETIC
PRODUCTS.
OK, BUT THE VINYL AS THE CORNER
BOARDS LOOK SOFT SO
COUNTERMARCH WE DON'T HAVE
THAT.
YEAH YEAH.
SO YOU'RE JUST GOING TO LOOK A
LITTLE SHARPER SO YOU'RE GOING
TO CORNER BOARDS LIKE SOME
COMPOSITE.
YES.
SKIRT SOME COMPOSITE AND THEN
THE FIELD IS GOING TO BE A
VINYL AND ALL THAT CALLED OUT
ON THE WALL SO YEAH OK THANK
YOU FOR THAT EXPLANATION.
APPRECIATE IT.
I THINK WE'VE SEEN THAT AND
MAYBE ONE OTHER PROJECT THERE'S
NOT MUCH VINYL OBVIOUSLY THAT
WE SEE BUT IT'S A GOOD A GOOD
WAY TO DO IT.
>> ANY COMMENTS?
IT'S NEW CONSTRUCTION.
IT'S IN THE WAY BACK OF THE
LOT.
SO I THINK THAT WE'RE NOT
GETTING MANY COMMENTS THERE
BECAUSE OF THOSE FACTORS IN THE
FACT THE DESIGN CHOICES MEET
THE STANDARDS SO AND THEN AND
THE EGRESS WINDOW AGAIN I THINK
YOU'LL OK THE REPORT THAT THE
IDEAL PLACE TO DO IT RIGHT.
>> OK, VERY GOOD.
>> SO I'M NOT HEARING ANY
COMMENTS ON BOTH OF THOSE TWO
THINGS.
LET'S LET'S VOTE ON THIS MOTION
SO ALL THOSE IN FAVOR OF THE
MOTION PLEASE SAY YES.
>> YES, YES, YES YES.
ALL THOSE OPPOSED SAY NO.
THE MOTION CARRIES THAT PORTION
OF THE APPLICATION HAS BEEN
APPROVED SO NOW WE'RE GOING TO
TALK ABOUT OH SO NOW SOMEONE
HAS TO READ THE SECOND MOTION.
CAN SOMEONE DO THAT?
THANK YOU.
I MOVE THAT THE COMMISSION
ISSUE A CERTIFICATE
OF APPROPRIATENESS FOR THE
APPLICATION.
IT WEST WASHINGTON STREET A
CONTRIBUTING PROPERTY IN THE
OLD WEST SIDE HISTORIC DISTRICT
TO WIDEN THE DRIVEWAY FROM WEST
WASHINGTON TO TEN FOOT SIX
INCHES PAVED WITH CONCRETE AND
EXTEND THE DRIVEWAY TO THE REAR
CORNER OF THE HOUSE AND REMOVE
A LANDMARK TREE IS PROPOSED TO
WORK AS COMPATIBLE AN EXTERIOR
DESIGN ARRANGEMENT TEXTURE
MATERIAL IN RELATIONSHIP TO THE
REST OF THE BUILDING AND THE
SURROUNDING AREA AND MEETS THE
END OF HISTORIC DISTRICT
GUIDELINES DESIGN GUIDELINES
ESPECIALLY THOSE FOR WINDOWS
SAFETY CODES AND RESIDENTIAL
ACCESSORY STRUCTURES AND THE
SECRETARY OF INTERIOR STANDARDS
FOR REHABILITATION AND
GUIDELINES FOR REHABILITATING
HISTORIC BUILDINGS IN
PARTICULAR STANDARDS TO NINE
TEN AND THE GUIDELINES FOR
WINDOWS NEIGHBORHOOD SETTING
AND HEALTH AND SAFETY CODES NO
SECOND THAT WAS MOVED BY MR.
KAPLAN SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER
FORTNER.
I THINK WE HAVE A BIT
OF IMPASSE HERE OR SOMETHING
BECAUSE WE'RE THE THE APPLICANT
DIDN'T HAVE THE LANDMARK TREE
ON THEIR SURVEY AND THE MOTION
IS SAYING THAT THEY'RE
PROPOSING TO REMOVE A LANDMARK
TREE BECAUSE OF THE FACT THAT
IT WASN'T ON THE DRAWINGS.
BUT I THINK IT WAS OR BY
OMISSION NOT ASKING TO REMOVE
IT.
SO WE DO HAVE TO CLARIFY THAT
PART OF THE MOTION BUT AND THEN
IN ORDER TO APPROVE THE
DRIVEWAY, I FEEL LIKE THE
DESIGN HAS TO CHANGE BECAUSE IT
HAS TO MOVE.
SO I DON'T KNOW HOW WE CAN
APPROVE THIS MOTION WITHOUT
REDESIGNING IT WHICH WE'RE NOT
GOING TO DO THAT.
>> I THINK THAT MAYBE WE COULD
TALK ABOUT IT THOUGH SO THAT
MAYBE WE COULD POSTPONE THE
MOTION OR SOMETHING LIKE THAT.
SO WE WE CAN AT LEAST LET THE
APPLICANT KIND OF KNOW WHERE
WE'RE ALL STANDING IN TERMS
OF HOW WE FEEL ABOUT IT AND
THEN DEPENDING ON HOW THIS
GOES, IF YOU DO HAVE TO
RESUBMIT SOMETHING YOU'LL
YOU'RE KIND OF KNOW HOW WE'RE
THINKING.
SO UNLESS SOMEONE HAS A
DIFFERENT IDEA OF HOW TO MOVE
FORWARD ON THIS.
BUT IS IT I THINK IT'S
POSTPONING WE NEED TO TALK
ABOUT WHETHER OR YEAH, WE'RE
GOING TO WORRY ABOUT IT WHETHER
BECAUSE IF IT'S NOT THEN YOU
DON'T WANT TO SEND IT BACK.
THAT'S EXACTLY RIGHT.
BUT IF IT MAY BE THEN IT MIGHT
BE A POSSIBILITY TO POSTPONE
OK, BECAUSE JUST RIGHT OFF THE
BAT IS ANYONE IN FAVOR
OF REMOVING A HISTORIC LANDMARK
TREE LIKE I DON'T SEE HOW WE
CAN DO THAT.
RIGHT.
OK, SO THAT'S COMPLETELY OFF
THE TABLE.
DO YOU HAVE SOMETHING TO ADD?
>> OH, I'LL LET YOU CHIME IN
HERE.
I DON'T THINK THAT TREE'S MY
PROPERTY SO I PROBABLY COULD
REMOVE IT ANYWAY.
RIGHT.
WE WERE FIGHTING OVER WORK
AROUND IT.
IT WAS ALWAYS WORKING.
WE WERE NEVER GETTING REMOVING
IT SO WHATEVER IT REQUIRED WAS
TO WORK AROUND WOULD NEVER DO
ANYWAY.
OK I GUESS THAT THAT'S NOTED SO
WELL IF WE CAN APPROVE IT WILL
APPROVE IT AND THEN IF WE DON'T
YOU'LL HEAR WHY I GUESS IT'S
POSSIBLE THAT WE CAN POSTPONE
IT INSTEAD OF DENYING IT SO
THAT YOU COULD COME BACK WITH
THE POSSIBILITIES FOR THE NEXT
MEETING OVER THE SCHEME IF YOU
POSTPONE IT IT'S FOR THE NEXT
MEETING.
WE HAVE ANOTHER THIRTY DAYS.
YEAH YEAH.
BUT IF WE DON'T APPROVE IT THEN
YOU HAVE TO COME BACK WITH
SOMETHING THAT'S SIGNIFICANTLY
DIFFERENT THAN WHAT'S THERE
WITH THE WITH THE POSTPONEMENT
YOU CAN SLIGHTLY MODIFY RIGHT.
SO IT IS A WE WE'RE HAPPY TO DO
THAT OK ALL RIGHT THANK YOU.
OK SO SO WE KNOW THE TREE IT'S
NOT IT'S IT'S A MOOT POINT NOW
IT'S IT'S NOT THE PROPERTY
ANYWAY IT'S NONE OF US WANT TO
GET RID OF IT.
SO I HAD A QUESTION FOR STAFF
PARKING IN THE FRONT OPEN SPACE
IS NOT ALLOWED BUT YOU CAN BE
GRANDFATHERED IN WHICH THIS IS.
>> YEAH NO ONE REALLY WANTS
THAT IN.
YOU KNOW IT'S NOT IDEAL FOR THE
FOR THE NEIGHBORHOOD SETTING
LET'S SAY.
BUT HOW DO WE LIKE ONCE LET'S
SAY THIS SOMETHING LIKE THIS IS
APPROVED WHEN YOU WERE DOING
YOUR MATH THERE WERE YOU
INCLUDING SOMEONE PARKING IT
LIKE IS IT JUST LIKE WELL
SOMEONE COULD PARK THERE ANYWAY
OR SOMETHING?
WHAT WHAT IS YOUR THOUGHT IN
TERMS OF CAR STACKING?
YEAH, LIKE YOU SAID LIKE THREE
CARS OR SOMETHING.
WHAT WERE YOU THINKING THAT
SOMEONE WAS GOING TO BE PARKING
IN THE OPEN SPACE?
>> AH YES.
I MEAN POTENTIALLY IF THERE'S A
DRIVEWAY AND IF THERE'S A
DRIVEWAY YOU CAN ARGUE OR
SOMETHING STACK THEM UP OK AND
YOU FIGURE IT'S ABOUT 18 FEET
PER CAR IS A STANDARD PARKING
SPACE.
YEAH THAT'S YEAH.
>> AND THAT'S HOW I DO THE MATH
RIGHT.
YEAH.
SO THERE'S NO IT WAS ROUGH MATH
IT WAS NOT PRECISE.
THERE'S NO LIKE YOU CAN'T
PREVENT SOMEONE FROM WALKING
THEIR UNATTRACTIVELY SO OK SO
SO YOU JUST CAN'T HAVE A
DRIVEWAY THAT LIKE THIS ONE
ENDS SO THAT THE ONLY PARKING
IT CAN IF YOU ARE PROPOSING A
BRAND NEW PARKING SPACE OR
DRIVEWAY IT WOULD HAVE TO HAVE
THE DRIVEWAY HAS TO LEAD TO A
LEGAL PARKING SPACE BEHIND THE
FRONT OF THE HOUSE OR IF THE
HOUSE IS SET WAY BACK OUT
OF THE REQUIRED OPEN SPACE.
YEAH.
SO IN THIS CASE IF THIS
DRIVEWAY HAD ORIGINALLY GONE,
YOU KNOW, 18 FEET BEYOND THE
RIGHT CORNER OF THE HOUSE, IT
WOULD LEAD TO A LEGAL PARKING
SPACE.
SO AT A MINIMUM THAT'S WHAT
WOULD YOU THAT'S THE MINIMUM
THAT WOULD MAKE WHAT'S THERE
NOW LEGAL.
BUT AGAIN, IT'S BEEN THERE FOR
A LONG TIME.
IT SHOWS UP ON THE NINETEEN
FORTY SEVEN ARIEL YEAH.
IT COULD BE A CONTRIBUTING
FEATURE.
IT'S FUNNY TO SEE THAT PHOTO
THAT'S FROM THE FRONT THERE TO
I'M OH
I'M ALL FUMBLE FINGERED
WITH THE BABY IF I MIGHT
PROVIDE A LITTLE NEIGHBORHOOD
CONTEXT I WALK PAST THIS
PROPERTY EVERY DAY WHEN YOU
LOOK AT THAT SIDE OF WASHINGTON
STREET THERE MANY HOUSES THAT
DON'T HAVE A DRIVEWAY OR THERE
ARE TWO HOUSES THAT SHARE A
DRIVEWAY AS YOU GO FURTHER EAST
ON WASHINGTON, THE HOUSE NEXT
DOOR ALSO HAS A SIMILAR GRADE
ISSUE AND THE DRIVEWAY DOESN'T
EXTEND BACK SUPER FAR RIGHT.
BUT EVERYTHING ELSE OF THE
DRIVEWAY GOES TO THE BACK
OF THE HOUSE ON ALL THOSE OTHER
PROPERTIES I THINK IS AS I LOOK
AT THIS IN WEST WASHINGTON HAS
PLENTY OF PARKING.
IT'S A PERMIT RESIDENCE PERMIT
STREET.
SO ANYBODY LIVES THERE RENTER
OWNER DOESN'T MATTER GETS THE
PERMIT.
I THINK IT'S TWENTY BUCKS A
YEAR AND YOU YOU CAN PARK
EITHER SIDE OF THE STREET FOR
AS LONG AS YOU WANT SO YOU KNOW
I THINK AS I LOOK AT KIND
OF CAR STORAGE ISSUES LIKE
WE'VE GOT PLENTY OF CAR STORAGE
SPACE AND WE'RE TALKING ABOUT
COMPROMISING HISTORIC
LANDSCAPES AND STRUCTURES FOR
ADDITIONAL CAR STORAGE, I
GENERALLY KIND OF PUSH BACK ON
THAT ESPECIALLY IF THERE ARE
WAYS AROUND THAT TO CAR GARAGE
SEEMS WHAT EVERYBODY ELSE IN
THIS NEIGHBORHOOD HAS WHETHER
THEY'RE YOU KNOW, MULTIFAMILY
UNITS OR SINGLE FAMILY UNITS
AND THEN, YOU KNOW, JUST
EXTENDING AS JILL NOTED IN HER
STAFF REPORT, I THINK IT'S JUST
A LOT.
YEAH.
THANK YOU FOR THAT.
HOPES ON THE DEVIL'S ADVOCATE
YEAH.
SIDE OF THAT I'M LOOKING AT
HOPES ON THE DEVIL'S ADVOCATE
THIS AND I DON'T KNOW WHETHER
SIDE OF THAT I'M LOOKING AT
IT'S NOT GOING GUIDELINE BUT
THIS AND I DON'T KNOW WHETHER
WHEN I'M LOOKING AT ANY OF THE
IT'S NOT GOING GUIDELINE BUT
PROPOSALS WE LOOK AT I SORT
WHEN I'M LOOKING AT ANY OF THE
OF ASKED MYSELF A QUESTION THAT
PROPOSALS WE LOOK AT I SORT
IS JUST PERMITTING SOMETHING
OF ASKED MYSELF A QUESTION THAT
THAT WE'RE BEING ASKED TO
IS JUST PERMITTING SOMETHING
PERMIT UNNECESSARILY FOIST
THAT WE'RE BEING ASKED TO
MODERNITY INTO THE CONTEXT
PERMIT UNNECESSARILY FOIST
OF AN HISTORICAL DISTRICT THAT
MODERNITY INTO THE CONTEXT
WE'RE IN CHARGE OF PROTECTING
OF AN HISTORICAL DISTRICT THAT
IN THIS CASE MY CONCERN IS NOT
WE'RE IN CHARGE OF PROTECTING
PERMITTING A CHANGE.
IN THIS CASE MY CONCERN IS NOT
DOES THAT IN THE FORM
PERMITTING A CHANGE.
OF PUTTING A SHINY METAL BOX
DOES THAT IN THE FORM
RIGHT IN THE FRONT YARD OF THIS
OF PUTTING A SHINY METAL BOX
HOUSE?
RIGHT IN THE FRONT YARD OF THIS
WE CAN'T STOP THAT FROM
HOUSE?
HAPPENING BUT WHAT IF WE DID
WE CAN'T STOP THAT FROM
MAKE AT LEAST ENOUGH ROOM FOR
HAPPENING BUT WHAT IF WE DID
ONE PARKING SPACE ON LEVEL
MAKE AT LEAST ENOUGH ROOM FOR
GROUND PAST THE CORNER OF THE
ONE PARKING SPACE ON LEVEL
HOUSE AND WE AND AND I GUESS WE
GROUND PAST THE CORNER OF THE
CAN'T DESIGN THIS BUT IF THAT
HOUSE AND WE AND AND I GUESS WE
DRIVEWAY WERE NARROW ENOUGH
CAN'T DESIGN THIS BUT IF THAT
THAT DRIVING AROUND OTHER
DRIVEWAY WERE NARROW ENOUGH
PEOPLE'S CARS IS NOT DESIRABLE,
THAT DRIVING AROUND OTHER
THE PEOPLE DO IT THE HOPE WOULD
PEOPLE'S CARS IS NOT DESIRABLE,
BE THAT THE USAGE OF THAT
THE PEOPLE DO IT THE HOPE WOULD
DRIVEWAY WHICH THEY ALREADY
BE THAT THE USAGE OF THAT
HAVE COULD BE DONE IN A WAY THE
DRIVEWAY WHICH THEY ALREADY
PEOPLE WHO ARE WALKING UP THE
HAVE COULD BE DONE IN A WAY THE
STREET DON'T SEE A MODERN SHINY
PEOPLE WHO ARE WALKING UP THE
CAR SITTING IN THE FRONT YARD
STREET DON'T SEE A MODERN SHINY
AND I COULD VIEW THAT AS A
CAR SITTING IN THE FRONT YARD
POSITIVE.
AND I COULD VIEW THAT AS A
I THINK THAT A TEN FOOT WIDE
POSITIVE.
DRIVEWAY SEEMS STRUCTURED TO
I THINK THAT A TEN FOOT WIDE
ENABLE MULTIPLE CARS TO DRIVE
DRIVEWAY SEEMS STRUCTURED TO
EVERYONE AROUND EACH OTHER AND
ENABLE MULTIPLE CARS TO DRIVE
THAT IS WHEN I START TO HEAR
EVERYONE AROUND EACH OTHER AND
JOE'S CONCERNS RING LOUDER IN
THAT IS WHEN I START TO HEAR
MY HEAD.
JOE'S CONCERNS RING LOUDER IN
OK,
OTHER COMMENTS I'VE PUT
YEAH.
I GUESS THIS ONE'S NOT
NECESSARILY FAMILIAR WITH THE
STREET SO HAVING BECAUSE FOR ME
I DON'T NECESSARILY FEEL A
LITTLE KIND OF SLIPPERY ISH
SHOULD BE SAYING NO BECAUSE I'M
AFRAID OF HOW IT'S GOING TO BE
USED TO ME.
I'M JUST LOOKING AT THE
QUESTION OF IS ADDING A
CONCRETE DRIVEWAY APPROPRIATE
NOT LIKE THAT'S THE I MEAN IT'S
LIKE SAYING I DON'T PUT IT BACK
ON A ON A I DON'T KNOW LIKE ON
A ROOFTOP BECAUSE YOU DON'T
WANT TO SEE PEOPLE UP THERE TO
ME I'M LOOKING AT IT LIKE OK
LOOKING AT ADDING ELEMENT TO
THE HISTORIC PROPERTY AND IS
THAT APPROPRIATE.
SO I GUESS NOT BEING FAMILIAR
WITH THE STREET MY QUESTION IS
STRICTLY JUST IS ADDING
CONCRETE WIDENING WHAT'S THERE
NOW AND EXTENDING IT BACK IS
THAT SOMETHING THAT'S
INAPPROPRIATE OR NOT NOT
NECESSARILY HOW IT'S GOING TO
BE USED AND OK, YES.
SO THAT'S THAT'S WHAT IT SOUNDS
LIKE.
COMMISSIONER SMITH IS SAYING
THAT SEVERAL OF THE HOMES HAVE
A DRIVEWAY THAT GOES ALL THE
WAY BACK TO A GARAGE AND THEN
SEVERAL OF THEM DON'T LOOK
RIGHT.
SO I THINK IT'S THE NEXT I'M
JUST LOOKING AT YOU NOW.
YEAH.
THE NEXT HOUSE DOESN'T HAVE A
DRIVEWAY AND THE TWO HOUSES
THAT THE WEST SHARED DRIVEWAY
HAVE A COMMON DRIVEWAY AND THEN
I THINK THEY EACH HAVE A GARAGE
.
IF I PURCHASED THAT I WOULD
FINALLY HAVE ONE CAR I WOULD
USE GREF SO IF THE DRIVEWAY WAS
INSTALLED AS PROPOSED YOU
WOULDN'T SEE A BUNCH OF CARS
STACKED UP THERE BECAUSE I ONLY
HAVE ONE CAR.
SO TO ME JUST THINKING ABOUT IN
TERMS OF PREVENTING CAR
STACKING UP IS NOT NECESSARILY
IN MY MIND IN OUR PER PERSON
IT'S JUST YEAH.
>> ADDING THE CONCRETE I COULD
SAY HOW DO YOU FEEL ABOUT
ADDING THE CONCRETE I GUESS
SINCE IT'S THERE NOT THERE'S
ALREADY A CURB CUT AND THERE
ARE ALREADY DRIVEWAYS IN THAT
ON THAT STREET IN THAT BLOCK I
DON'T FEEL LIKE IT'S SOMETHING
THAT'S INAPPROPRIATE BUT THAT'S
EVEN IF THERE WAS JUST ONE SPOT
ON THE NINETEEN FORTY SEVEN
AERIAL OH OK.
I GUESS JUST TO BACK UP LIKE SO
IN TERMS OF PAST PRECEDENT LIKE
HAS THIS COMMISSION PREVIOUSLY
ALLOWED FOR LIKE WHERE THERE'S
NO KIND OF LIKE HOW HOW OFTEN
DO WE APPROVE NEW CONCRETE OR
NEW DRIVEWAYS WHERE THERE
AREN'T DRIVEWAYS OR WHERE
THERE'S JUST LIKE A LITTLE WEE
LITTLE DRIVEWAY IS IT SOMETHING
THAT WE TYPICALLY ARE JUST LIKE
NO, I DON'T THINK SO.
>> IT'S JUST LIKE DIFFERENT.
I CAN THINK OF ONE OR TWO THAT
HAVE NOT BEEN APPROVED BUT
THOSE ARE THE ONLY ASKS IN
EIGHT YEARS THAT I CAN THINK
OF .
THERE HAVE BEEN PEOPLE THAT
HAVE ASKED FOR LIKE PRIVATE
ROADS BETWEEN HOUSES THAT'S NOT
GOING ANYWHERE BUT THAT'S
DIFFERENT.
SO YOU'RE SAYING TYPICALLY THIS
IS NOT APPROVED BUT I WOULDN'T
SAY THAT BECAUSE THERE HASN'T
BEEN THERE'S THERE'S NOT ENOUGH
EXAMPLES TO SHOW TREND.
>> VERY GOOD.
RIGHT.
OK, I MEAN WE DON'T HAVE ENOUGH
ALEX WITH GARAGES.
YOU KNOW, I THINK IF YOU GO TO
MOST OTHER CITIES THAT ARE THE
AGE OF AN AFTER YOU YOU HAVE A
PRETTY ESTABLISHED ALI NETWORK
IN LOTS OF RESIDENTIAL
NEIGHBORHOODS ACCESS FROM THE
BACK, YOU KNOW, BUT WE JUST
WENT I KNOW WE HAVE DETROIT
BECAUSE THAT'S WHERE I'M FROM.
I DO A LOT OF WORK DOWN NEAR
THE ABANDONED HOUSES WHEN I
GREW UP THEY WERE ALI'S X-AXIS
GARAGES AND NOW ABANDONED AND
BASICALLY THEY'VE JUST GONE
ERAL GRASS GROWN.
YEAH.
SO I DID HAVE A QUESTION
SOMETHING YOU SAID I DID NOT
KNOW I WANTED CLARIFICATION ON
THAT SO LONG HISTORY OUR
RESIDENTIAL PART IT'S BEEN A
PERMANENT YEAH.
THE PARK SO EVERY TIME THAT BIT
OF THE PROPERTY THERE'S BEEN NO
PARKING ON THE STREET I MEAN I
COULD NOT PARK SO IT'S ONE DAY
SO IT SWITCHES SIDES SO ONE DAY
YOU CAN PARK ALL UP AND DOWN
ONE SIDE BUT YOU NEED A
RESIDENCE PERMIT TO PARK FOR
MORE THAN TWO HOURS AT AND THEN
YOU KNOW IT'S TUESDAY, THURSDAY
ON ONE SIDE OF THE STREET.
YEAH.
YEAH, OK.
ALL RIGHT.
ARE YOU SAYING THAT BOTH SIDES
OF THE STREET HAVE BEEN PARKED
UP WHEN I WHEN I WOULD SAY THE
FREE SIDE OF THE STREET YES.
OK YEAH YEAH YEAH YEAH.
YOU KNOW A LOT OF STUDENTS THAT
LIVE IN THE AREA SO I GUESS MY
HOUSE RIGHT NOW I CAN'T GET
ACCESS TO HOUSES TO THE POLICE
DEPARTMENT STREET THE NEXT
PLACE THAT WE'RE OF THE EASY
ACCESS IT'S NOT GARAGES THE
DRIVEWAY BUT IF YOU HAVE A
PERMIT THEN YOU CAN RENT RIGHT
.
WHICH YOU KNOW RESIDENTS WOULD
WOULD GET THOSE WE WOULD FILM
THAT.
YEAH.
YEAH THAT'S WHAT I MEAN THERE
THERE ARE LOTS OF RENTALS THAT
YOU KNOW HAVE PLENTY OF PARKING
BACK BUT THEY'RE ALSO RENTALS
DON'T HAVE ANY PARKING BRAKE
BECAUSE THEY HAVE A STUDENT.
THAT'S IT.
THAT LOOKS LIKE YOU'RE SNOOPING
AROUND BACK HERE.
A LOT OF CARS COMING IN AND OUT
LOOKS LIKE STUDENTS ARE YOU
KNOW I GUESS FOR ME AT THAT
PRICE POINT THE HOUSE I BOUGHT
A PARTY FOR MY STORY MY
DRIVEWAY NOT HAVE RUN UP AND
DOWN THE BLOCK LOOKING FOR A
SPOT BECAUSE EVERY TIME I PULL
IT OFF DOES IT EVER STOP?
YEAH.
YEAH, UNFORTUNATELY NEVER DOES
NOT TYPICALLY PRIORITIZE
VEHICLES OVER PEOPLE.
I GET THEM THAT'S THE BEST ONE
FABRICATED KIND OF NOT TO WORRY
ABOUT FIVE FOUR OR FIVE.
YEAH YEAH PRETTY GOOD.
>> OK LET'S LET'S WRAP UP THIS
DISCUSSION JUST MAYBE SOME
FINAL COMMENTS.
WE'VE KIND OF TALKED AROUND
THIS OR SOMETHING BUT LET'S SAY
THE MOTION WAS WE HAVE TO VOTE
ON THE MOTION.
RIGHT.
SO THE MOTION IS WHAT IS
PROPOSED IN THE DRAWING BUT
WHAT IS PROPOSED IN THE DRAWING
DOES NOT SHOW A TREE.
I JUST IN THIS LIKE CIRCULAR
KIND OF THING THAT WERE JUST A
MAN THAT I MEAN WE COULD AMEND
WE DID THE OK, WELL WE'LL AMEND
A MOTION SO LET'S LET'S DO THAT
FIRST AND THEN WE CAN KIND
OF THINK ABOUT WHAT WE'RE
VOTING HERE BUT CAN CAN JUST
BECAUSE THE MOTION SAYS THAT
WE'RE REMOVING THE LANDMARK
TREE SO CAN YOU SCRATCH THAT?
>> DOES IT READ WITHOUT IT?
HOW ABOUT IF YOU SAY EXTEND THE
DRIVEWAY TO THE REAR CORNER
OF THE HOUSE?
WELL, MAINTAINING PRESERVE FIVE
FEET
FROM THE LANDMARK TREE OR
SOMETHING LIKE THAT BECAUSE YOU
ALSO DON'T WANT TO RIGHT OVER
THE ROOTS OF THE TREE.
YES, NOT GOOD.
SO IT WOULD IT WOULD HAVE IN A
WAY THAT WOULD HAVE PRESERVED
IN A MANNER THAT WILL PRESERVE
THE LANDMARK TREE.
OK, ARE YOU AMENABLE TO THAT?
STEVE, YOU MADE THE MOTION.
YES OK OK.
YEAH
SO IT'S
IT'S NOT LABELED
HOW CLOSE THE EDGE OF THE
DRIVEWAY IS TO THE HOUSE.
IT'S LABELED IT THERE'S A THREE
FOOT SET BACK TO THE PROPERTY
LINE BUT WE'RE NOT REALLY SURE
WHERE THE PROPERTY LINE IS.
MAYBE IF YOU IF WE GO BACK TO
THAT THAT PHOTO IT'S THERE'S A
FENCE THERE BUT THE TREE IS ON
THIS SIDE OF THE FENCE.
YEAH.
THREE.
WHAT IF THE DRIVEWAY WENT JUST
TO THE I MEAN TO ME IT LOOKS
LIKE THE DRIVEWAY IS AIMING
RIGHT AT THE TREE.
WAS ANYONE WHO WAS WHEN YOU
WERE OUT THERE WHAT DID IT LOOK
LIKE THE REVIEW COMMITTEE?
>> THAT'S WHAT IT LOOKS LIKE.
YEAH.
OK, SO I MEAN THERE'S A VERY
DIFFERENT VIEW.
>> YEAH.
I MEAN THERE'S THERE'S THERE'S
A ROOM THERE'S NOBODY THERE'S
JUST ROOM THAT THE DRIVEWAY IS
GOING TO VEER OFF TO THE LEFT
THERE OR IT'S GOING TO HAVE A A
JOG AND AND OR SOMETHING IF WE
IDEALLY YOU MOVE A LITTLE NUB
THAT'S THERE CLOSE TO THE HOUSE
SO IT COULD BE STRAIGHT BUT
THAT'S THAT'S WHAT IT LOOKS
AFTER WHEN YOU LOOK UP FROM THE
EXISTING YEAH.
LITTLE IN CHICAGO IT'S AIMING
RIGHT AT THE TREE BUT YOU CAN
YOU CAN REDIRECT THAT.
YEAH.
YOU HAVE TO REDIRECT.
VERY GOOD.
OK, THERE'S ROOM I AGREE IT
WOULD BE NICE TO KNOW HOW CLOSE
TO THE HOUSE THE FOUNDATION WAS
.
I MEAN WELL WE NEED TO MAINTAIN
A PLANTING STRIP SO DO WE NEED
DATA IS THAT THIS IS GETTING
I'M KIND OF I'M I'M WITH YOU.
I'M NOT SURE THIS DRIVEWAY IS
APPROPRIATE.
YEAH.
THIS HOUSE DIDN'T HISTORICALLY
HAVE A DRIVEWAY WASN'T PART
OF THIS HISTORIC SITE.
I MEAN I I AGREE AND THIS IS
THE FACT THAT IT WAS IN THE
NINETEEN FORTY SEVEN AERIAL
WITH JUST THAT CONCRETE BUT
THEN I'M ALSO AND SO I'M LIKE
WELL LET'S JUST KEEP IT LIKE
THAT THERE'S PLENTY OF PARKING
BUT THEN ALSO JUST LOOKING AT
THIS AND THINKING WELL DIDN'T
EVERYONE JUST PARK NEXT TO A
HOUSE ANYWAY EVEN FROM THE
BEFORE THE DO YOU THINK.
>> WELL I THINK THIS BECAUSE IT
LOOKS LIKE A GOT TO YOU CAN'T
ANTICIPATE WHAT PEOPLE ARE
GOING TO DO.
RIGHT.
WE FOLLOW THE STANDARD.
>> YEAH.
AND LOOKING AT WELL THEY'RE
JUST DRIVE RIGHT UP AND JUST SO
KNOW THAT WHOLE TIME THEN
LOOKING AT AERIALS FROM MANY
DIFFERENT YEARS.
YEAH THERE IS USUALLY A CAR IN
THIS SPOT.
YEAH BUT I NEVER SAW A CAR
OTHER ONE.
YEAH THERE WAS A DUMPSTER THERE
FOR A LONG TIME.
YEAH YEAH OK THAT WAS NOT
HISTORIC
I I WOULD HAVE
COVERED IT PROVING THAT DEEP
OF A DRIVEWAY OR MISSING SO OK
WELL THIS IS GETTING WEIRD
WE'RE GETTING INTO LIKE DESIGN
TERRITORY AND STUFF LIKE THAT
YOU JUST HAVE TO THAT'S WHERE
YOU KNOW YEAH I THINK WE NEED
TO DECIDE IF WE ARE SO WE'RE
GOING TO VOTE YES OK TO
POSTPONE OR NOT POSTPONE OK WE
WILL I'LL LET CHUCK SAY
SOMETHING AND THEN WE'LL WE'D
BE HAPPY TO CUT THIS BACK SOME
SO WE COULD GET ONE PARKING
SPACE IN HERE WHERE IT'S LEVEL
FOUR AND THE WIDTH OF IT WHICH
WAS COMMENTED ON JUMPING OVER
CARS WHEN YOU'RE BACKING UP AND
GOING DOWN A HILL AND CHANGING
ANGLE PEOPLE THAT DO THAT VERY
WELL WHEN YOU GIVE THEM JUST
WITH THEIR CAR.
SO THAT WAS REALLY THE THINKING
MORE THAN ANYTHING ELSE.
BUT WE CAN WE CAN SCALE THIS
BACK IN DETAIL THE TREE AND AND
BRING IT BACK TO YOU AND SHOW
YOU WHERE THAT IS.
>> OK, THAT'S NOT A PROBLEM.
OK, SO THAT SOUNDS LIKE A
REQUEST FOR A POSTPONEMENT
WHICH I THINK THAT MAYBE WE
WERE JUST ABOUT TO POSSIBLY
VOTE NO SO SO YOU KIND OF HEARD
OUR COMMENTS I I I THINK WE CAN
POSTPONE IT AND SEE THE UPDATED
DESIGN AND THEN WE'LL VOTE ON
THAT AND AND I UNLESS SOMEONE
ELSE IS FEELING VERY STRONGLY
OTHERWISE BUT LET'S WELL LET'S
LET'S POSTPONE IT THEN DO WE
HAVE TO VOTE ON A POSTPONE OR
WE JUST YEAH.
>> OK SO I MOVE TO POSTPONE
THIS HEARING UNTIL THE THE NEXT
MEETING.
DOES ANYONE SUPPORT THAT ALL
THOSE IN FAVOR SAY YES YES YES.
ALL THOSE OPPOSED SAY NO TO B
WAS THAT SUPPORTING OR STEVE
STEVE STEVE.
OK THANK YOU.
SORRY ABOUT THAT.
YEAH OPPOSED SAY NO.
ALL RIGHT THE THE POSTPONEMENT
PASSES SO THAT IS POSTPONED THE
APRIL 11TH SEVEN EIGHT NINE TEN
THURSDAY APRIL 10 HGC MEETING
BE SURE THAT IN YOUR UPDATED
DESIGN YOU CAN FIT A VEHICLE
THAT GOES 18 FEET PAST THE
FRONT CORNER OF THE HOUSE OR IT
STILL WON'T BE A LEGAL PARKING
SPACE AND IT STILL WON'T
SELLING PERMITS IT'S GOT TO BE
YOU'VE GOT TO HAVE YOU'VE GOT
TO BE ABLE TO FIT A CAR BEHIND
THE FRONT CORNER OF THE HOUSE
IN ORDER FOR IT TO BE A LEGAL
PARKING SPACE.
SO THAT IS THE MINIMUM DEPTH
THAT YOU COULD PROPOSE IT.
>> OK, ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU.
OK,
JUST VERY GOOD LAST HEARING
.
ARE YOU GOING COME BACK IN
APRIL WHEN YOU DO THAT AS A AS
A MEMBER OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE GREAT CITY PUBLIC
HEARING?
OK, YES.
YOU CAN ZOOM IN ALL RIGHT.
>> SO ARE YOU ON THE G NOW NEW
BUSINESS FIRST THE AGENDA.
>> YEAH.
YEAH.
OK, SO NEW BUSINESS WE'VE GOT
SOME NEW BUSINESS SO I AM
LOOKING FORWARD TO LIAISONS.
THESE ARE POSITIONS THAT
HAVEN'T BEEN FILLED IN A LITTLE
WHILE.
WE ARE SUPPOSED TO HAVE AT
LEAST ONE MEMBER ON THE AWARDS
COMMITTEE AND ALSO ONE MEMBER
ON THE COBBLESTONE FARM FORD
BOARD I THINK IT'S JUST CALLED
COBBLY STONE.
I CAN I CAN GET INFORMATION WE
DON'T HAVE TO MAKE THIS
DECISION TONIGHT BUT I WOULD I
WANT TO PITCH IT OUT THERE FOR
YOU GUYS TO THINK ABOUT IT.
AWARDS ONLY MEETS FROM FEBRUARY
TO JUNE SPORADICALLY DURING THE
DAY WE GOT A VAN TOUR AND DRIVE
AROUND AND LOOK AT THIRTY OR
FORTY PROPERTIES AND THEN
DECIDE WHICH ONES SHOULD SHOULD
RECEIVE AWARDS FROM THE START
DISTRICT AND THEN WE BRING IT
BACK TO YOU GUYS AND YOU VOTE
ON THIS YEAR THAT THEY'RE GOING
TO BE A LITTLE BIT DIFFERENT
STRIPPED DOWN.
WE'RE NOT GONNA HAVE AS MANY
THEY'RE GETTING WAY TOO
CUMBERSOME AND I WOULD REALLY
LIKE A NEW PERSON OR TWO TO
SERVE ON THAT COMMITTEE WHO
DOES ALL THE HARD WORK OF LIKE
DECIDING WHAT THE NOMINEES.
YEAH.
SO YOU AS A PERSON ON THE
COMMITTEE WOULD BE PART
OF DOING THAT.
YEAH.
WORK THAT'S THE FUN PART.
I MEAN SOME PEOPLE APPROACH ME
AND SAY HEY HOW DO I GET AN
AWARD AND THEN I'LL NOMINATE
THOSE AND SOME ARE JUST LIKE
REALLY COOL PROJECTS.
I'M SURE YOU GUYS THAT ARE
STANDOUTS FOR THE YEAR BUT
OTHER ONES ARE JUST NO OH DAVE
WHO'S ON THE COMMITTEE DROVE BY
THIS HOUSE SO THAT THEY ARE
DOING A FANTASTIC REHAB JOB AND
IT'S NOT AN HISTORIC DISTRICT
SO IT WASN'T ON OUR RADAR.
>> RIGHT.
SO I'M GOING TO NOMINATE THAT
THAT SORT OF THING.
WHEN YOU SAY STRIPPED DOWN, IS
IT LIKE IT'S NOT LIKE THERE ARE
NO SICK HEAD FOR THE
CATEGORIES.
THERE'S JUST OH, THIS IS HOW
MANY THERE ARE CATEGORIES AND
IN THE PAST I'VE MADE THEM
CARPET AT EIGHTEEN.
>> OH MY GOD.
YEAH.
>> TOO MANY EIGHTEEN
CATEGORIES.
NO NO NO NO NO NO AWARDS IN
THERE LIKE A HALF A DOZEN
CATEGORIES MOST OF THEM ARE
REHABILITATOR OR PRESERVATION
FOR OWNERS THAT HAVE TAKEN CARE
OF A HISTORIC PROPERTY FOR MORE
THAN TEN YEARS YOU KNOW AND
DONE IT WELL BUT THERE ARE
SPECIAL MERIT AWARDS THERE ARE
CENTENNIAL BUSINESS AWARDS SO
BASICALLY YOU MAKE UP AN AWARD
FOR ANYBODY YOU WANT TO GO.
THERE ARE A COUPLE
OF CATEGORIES FRED
PRESERVATIONIST OF THE YEAR IF
THERE'S A STANDOUT PERSON WHO
DID SOMETHING REALLY GREAT, WE
GIVE THOSE OUT RIGHT?
THAT'S NICE FIVE YEARS AND
THERE'S PEOPLE FROM THE
COMMUNITY WHO ARE ALSO ON THE
AIR ALL FROM THE COMMUNITY.
THERE ARE NO COMMISSIONERS.
RIGHT.
SO SO THERE'S THERE'S
PASSIONATE COMMUNITY MEMBERS
VERY PASSIONATE IS GOING TO
JOIN.
THEY'RE VERY PASSIONATE AND
IT'S A GREAT GROUP
OF VOLUNTEERS AND THEY DO A LOT
OF WORK ON THIS.
BUT I WOULD LOVE TO HAVE
SOMEBODY FROM THE HDB BECAUSE
WE'RE SUPPOSED ELEVATOR TO YOUR
OWN SUBCOMMITTEE THAT MAKES I
MEET YOU'RE IN THE MIDDLE
OF THE WEEKDAYS.
THEY DO OK.
YEAH.
NOT HEARING A LOT OF INTEREST
UNFORTUNATELY THAT'S GOING TO
BE DETERRED.
CAN YOU AVAILABILITY
OF DEMARCHELIER WHAT YOU WOULD
HAVE TO DO IS YOU WOULD HAVE TO
ATTEND THE VAN TOUR AND YOU
WOULD HAVE TO ATTEND ONE
MEETING BEFORE ONE MEETING
AFTER THE VAN TOUR THE ONE
BEFORE IS TO SORT OF PASS
THROUGH THE PROPERTIES AND I
PUT THEM UP ON THE BIG SCREEN
AND AND THEN IT'S IT'S IN A WAY
IT'S LIKE A WELL NEVER MIND I'M
NOT GOING TO GO THERE.
IT'S YOU HAVE TO EVALUATE THE
PROPERTIES.
RIGHT.
AND ONLY WORK THAT COULD BE
APPROVED BY THE D.C. GETS YOU
IN A WORD INTERESTING.
SO EVEN THOUGH YOU GET A REALLY
COOL REHAB, IF IT'S NOT
SOMETHING THAT WOULD HAVE BEEN
APPROVABLE BY THE AGENCY THAT'S
NOT THIS AWARD.
THAT'S NOT THIS AWARD.
YEAH, EXACTLY.
EXACTLY.
>> ARE THOSE MEETINGS IN PERSON
OR THEY'RE IN PERSON.
THEY'RE IN CITY HALL.
YEAH, WE'VE GOT ONE COMING UP
NEXT FRIDAY MORNING RIGHT
OF AND EVEN IF YOU COULD JUST
GO TO MAYBE NOT ALL THREE
OF THOSE THINGS BUT THE VAN
TOUR IS REALLY PRETTY FUN.
SO WHEN YOU SAY LIKE TOMORROW
WEEK A WEEK FROM TOMORROW.
YEAH.
AND YOU WOULDN'T BE UNDER ANY
OBLIGATION TO CONTINUE TO DO
THIS FOR THE REST OF YOUR
CAREER IF YOU COULD JUST THIS
COULD BE A ONE OFF YOU COULD BE
EARLY ON THIS YEAR.
WELL I CAN DO IT YOU KNOW
YOU'RE GOING TO TEN DAYS AND
I'LL GIVE UP COBBLESTONED OK.
ALL RIGHT.
OK SO NOW THANK YOU FOR THAT.
THANK YOU GUYS FOR IT AND I'LL
SEND YOU THE MEETING.
MUCH APPRECIATED SAID LT AND
THEN THE NEXT ONE IS
COBBLESTONED FARM.
>> HAD YOU BEEN GOING TO EAT
WELL I WAS FOR QUITE A WHILE
AND THEN I STOPPED GETTING YOU
KNOW I WOULD GET THE AGENDA AND
THE LIVING THING AND AND THEN
IT STOPPED AND I COULD NEVER
REMEMBER EXCEPT WHEN I DROVE
OUT OF ANYTHING FROM THAT PLACE
I SHOULD BE HAPPY ALTHOUGH IT'S
BEEN MONTHS AND MONTHS THAT
COBBLESTONE MEETS ONCE A MONTH
.
>> YES.
AND THEY HAVE A SET MEETINGS
AND IT WAS IT'S BEEN VIRTUALLY
OK.
YES.
IT'S STILL VIRTUAL REALITY.
YEAH.
OH IS IT IN THE EVENINGS.
YES TO THE EVENINGS AND SINCE
OUR LIAISON JUST RETIRED TO
BECOME YOUR THE COBBLESTONED
BOARD IS INTERESTING THEY ARE
IN CHARGE OF ALL OF THE
RENOVATIONS ON THE FARM
ACTIVITIES ON THE FARM.
YOU KNOW, THEY HAD A LOT
OF PLANS A FEW YEARS AGO.
IT IS A STORAGE DISTRICT SO ANY
CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS HAVE TO
COME THROUGH.
YOU KNOW, YOU GUYS NEED TO DO
SOME NEW WINDOWS.
THEY HAVE DONE THE WINDOWS THAT
HAVE SERVED AS A LIAISON
MEMBER.
YEAH.
IF MEMORY SERVES YEAH.
AND I HAVE TO SAY THAT THEY THE
THE BOARD IS RUNNING IT JUST IN
THE SHORT TIME I'VE BEEN IT.
OH YEAH THEY'RE MUCH MORE
BUSINESSLIKE AND THEY'RE
GETTING WELL THEY WANT TO GET
GRANT MONEY AND YOU CAN'T BE
YEAH.
ALL OVER THE PLACE.
YEAH THAT'S GOOD.
YEAH PROGRESS THEN YOU LOOK
INTERESTED SHAHROUDI OK GREAT.
OH THANK YOU.
I WILL SEND YOU INFORMATION
WHEN THEY ACTUALLY PUT YOU IN
TOUCH WITH PEOPLE THERE IN CASE
YOU ANY QUESTIONS.
THANK YOU.
WELL THANK YOU BOTH FOR THAT
MUCH APPRECIATED THAT YOU'LL BE
DOING THAT OK I DON'T SEE ANY
OTHER NEW BUSINESS SO WE'LL GO
TO APPROVAL OF THE MINUTES
FEBRUARY MINUTES I GUESS WE
MUST HAVE YEAH WE APPROVED YOU
MUST HAVE APPROVED JANUARY.
YEAH I REMEMBER.
OK HAS ANYONE TAKEN A LOOK AT
THE FEBRUARY MINUTES YOU SEE OK
ANYONE ELSE COMMENTS.
OK WELL UM WITHOUT ANY
CORRECTIONS BEING HEARD I WILL
LET'S APPROVE THEM AS AS
SUBMITTED REPORTS FROM
COMMISSIONERS ANY REPORTS WE
WILL BE SHORTLY HEARING REPORTS
FROM OUR TWO LIAISONS NOW WHICH
THAT'LL BE FUN.
SO LET'S MOVE ON TO
ASSIGNMENTS.
WE'VE GOT THE MONDAY APRIL 8TH
REVIEW COMMITTEE.
IT'S A FIVE P.M. MEETING.
IT'S FIVE REVIEW FOR THE APRIL
APRIL 11 MEETING.
SO MONDAY, APRIL EIGHT AT FIVE
.
I SHOULD SHARE WITH YOU THAT I
WILL NOT BE AT THAT MEETING THE
REVIEW COMMITTEE BECAUSE I'LL
BE IN OHIO WATCHING IN TOTAL
SOLAR ECLIPSE.
OH I SEE.
FIRST DAY WE'RE I'M GOING TO
ASK YOU IN TOTALITY I'M GOING
TO TALK TO DADDY.
YEAH, THAT'S A MONDAY.
THAT'S THURSDAY.
OK ABOUT I THINK IT'S ABOUT
THREE O'CLOCK IN THE AFTERNOON
.
YEAH TOTALLY.
YEAH YOU'LL BE THEY'LL BE OUT
OF TOWN.
THEY'RE NOT THEY'RE NOT DOING
THAT.
MY FAMILY WILL BE OH THAT'S
COOL.
>> SO I DON'T I DON'T REALLY
HAVE A SENSE OF SO WE'RE GOING
TO SCHOOL BECAUSE NOT OH
SOMEBODY WILL GO PLACE SO VERY
STAFF I MEAN IF WE IF WE MOVED
TO THE TUESDAY I'D BE HAPPY TO
DO IT AS WELL IF YEAH.
GO RIGHT.
I'M WHAT WE'VE GOT TO SEE IF I
COULD DO THAT TO VOLUNTEERS FOR
TUESDAY.
OK LET ME LET ME TAKE A LOOK
THAT DOESN'T WORK.
I COULD I CAN DO THE MONDAY I
CAN'T DO IT OK OK THAT IS IF
P.M. APRIL NINE I'M IN DETROIT
BUT NOT WITH YOU KNOW TUESDAYS
AND WE'VE SEEN SO MANY GREAT.
>> IT'S POSSIBLE THAT I WOULD
HAVE A TWELVE YEAR OLD WITH ME
DOING BUT I COULDN'T DO THAT
UNLESS WE HAVE TWO PEOPLE THAT
ARE AVAILABLE ON MONDAY I'D
RATHER LEAVE THAT MONDAY
BECAUSE THAT'S OUR PUBLISHED
CALENDAR AND ALL THAT I CAN GO
MONDAY SEE COMMISSIONER ROSS AS
WELL JENNIFER.
OK, SO I WILL LET YOU KNOW WHO
WILL REPLACE ME AS CITY STAFF
YOU OUT THERE AGAIN?
I'M NOT EXPECTING A HUGE AGENDA
SO I DON'T THINK THERE'LL BE
SIX THINGS OUT THERE WERE ON
THIS ONE WEEK I SAID THAT OUT
LOUD SO I PROBABLY JUST SO I'M
STARTING MY FIVE PM.
YEAH YEAH.
GOOD.
LET'S GO OUT.
>> YEAH WE APPRECIATE YOU AND
THERE FIVE POINTS.
THANK YOU JENNIFER AND STEVE.
ALL RIGHT.
I A RETREAT PLAN IS YEAH.
>> SO I HAD A COUPLE
OF COMMISSIONERS WHO SAID THAT
THEY COULDN'T ACTUALLY DO THAT
APRIL TWENTY SEVENTEEN AFTER
ALL.
SO THEN I CIRCLED BACK AROUND
SET YOU GUYS ANOTHER POLL CHIP
STEVE AND DAVE SAID THEY'RE
FINE WITH ANY OF THE THREE
APRIL DATES AND THEN I DIDN'T
HEAR FROM THE OTHERS SO I'M
SORRY TO MAKE YOU GO THROUGH
THIS PAINFUL EXERCISE AGAIN
OF LETTING ME KNOW WHETHER YOU
HAVE A CONFLICT ON APRIL 30
TWENTY OR TWENTY SEVEN IN THE
MORNING FROM NINE TO NOON THEN
YOU HAD A CONFLICT OR TWO.
>> YEAH I DID DO THE WEEKEND
TWENTY SEVEN.
OK SO THIS IS NO BEN I'M SORRY
WHAT WAS THE FIRST TWENTY EIGHT
THIRTY SEVEN THIRTY IT KIND
OF CAME OUT OH I CAN'T DO THE
TWENTIETH YOU CAN'T DO THE
TWENTY OK NO KATHY I WAS THE
THIRTEENTH LOOKING THAT'S THE
BEST ONE FOR ME OK I CAN DO
THAT I CAN DO THAT.
YOU OK.
YEAH THIRTEEN SECOND GO SO
WE'RE GOING TO MOVE IT FROM
APRIL 27TH TO APRIL 13TH.
I ALSO NEED TO LET YOU KNOW
THAT I'M HAVING A REALLY HARD
TIME FINDING AN APPROPRIATE
SPEAKER.
LOTS OF PEOPLE LIKE TO TALK
ABOUT LOVING OR HATING
DISTRICTS.
NOT MANY PEOPLE GET THE NUANCES
OF THAT.
YOU KNOW, AND CAN TALK ABOUT
HOUSING AND AFFORDABILITY AND
AFFECT SOME DISTRICTS AND
DISTRICTS, AFFECTS OTHER
FACTORS.
AND I'M STILL LOOKING THOUGH
BUT IT'S POSSIBLE THAT WE MIGHT
NOT HAVE A FORMAL SPEAKER WHICH
WE DON'T USUALLY HAVE ANYWAY.
BUT I WAS JUST I'M JUST REALLY
TRYING TO FIND ONE.
YEAH,
IS THERE ANYTHING
SPECIFIC THAT YOU GUYS HAVE
THOUGHT ABOUT IN THE LAST MONTH
THAT YOU WOULD LIKE TO TALK
ABOUT ADDING TO THE STAFF
APPROVAL LIST SOLAR PANELS WE
BROUGHT UP AT THE LAST MEETING
?
I MEAN THERE ALREADY IS STAFF
APPROVAL BUT WE TALKED ABOUT
MAYBE BROADENING THAT I'M
THINKING EGRESS WINDOWS.
YEAH, YEAH.
>> YEAH.
IS THERE ANYTHING ELSE THAT YOU
SEE COME THROUGH THAT YOU THINK
OH MAN STEPH OF THAT IT'S I
KNOW IT'S NOT USUALLY UNTIL YOU
GET A BUNCH OF APPLICATIONS
THAT GETS ON YOUR RADAR BUT
JUST BE THINKING ABOUT THAT I
THINK I'LL PUT ON THE AGENDA A
REVIEW OF THE STAFF APPROVAL
LIST SO THAT EVERYBODY
UNDERSTANDS WHAT'S ON IT NOW
FOR THE SAKE OF OUR NEW FOLKS
AND THEN WE CAN TALK ABOUT
ADDING ADDITIONAL JILTED YOU
DID WE HAD SIGNS YES WE DO SITE
SIGNS OUR STAFF OK AS LONG AS
THEY'RE NOT GETTING ANY BIGGER
AND THEY MEET A DESIGN GUY
THAT'S OK.
AWESOME OR IF I'M UNCOMFORTABLE
WITH THEM OK
THE JOE OK.
ALL RIGHT THAT'S IT FOR REPORTS
FROM STAFF.
>> HOW IS THE OLD FOURTH WARD
SURVEY SURVEY GO?
I HAVE A DRAFT THAT IS HOT OFF
THE PRESS FROM THE CONSULTANTS
THAT I HAVEN'T EVEN HAD A
CHANCE TO LOOK AT YET BUT I
HAVE TO TURN AROUND COMMENTS ON
IT PRETTY SOON.
OH THAT'S EXCITING.
YEAH, IT'S NOT A COMPLETE
SURVEY BUT IT'S THE REPORT BODY
AND THEN THE SURVEY CARDS THAT
ARE DONE TO DATE.
IT'S JUST NOT FOUR HUNDRED
PROPERTIES.
IT'S I'M NOT EVEN SURE WHAT
PORTION OF THEM IT IS BUT THEY
ARE MADLY WORKING ON THOSE AND
TO APPEASE US ON THE SHIP SO
GIVE US THE THE THE REPORT
PROPER.
>> WELL IT'S GOOD WE'RE STILL
WE'RE STILL ON TIME.
WE'VE GOT TO REVISE TIMELINE
BUT THEY'RE DOING GREAT AND
WE'RE WE'RE GOOD.
>> CAN WE SEE A LITTLE BIT
OF THAT MAYBE AT THE REVIEW I
MEAN YEAH WHATEVER WOULD BE
KIND OF COOL TO SEE JUST SPEND
SOME TIME LIKE WHAT WHAT
ACTUALLY DOES THAT LOOK LIKE
AND YEAH.
IS THERE ANYTHING IN THE REPORT
THAT WOULD AFFECT WHAT WE'RE
DOING.
>> YEAH RIGHT YEAH.
IT WILL BE USED A LOT MORE FOR
YOUR DECISION MAKING BECAUSE
YOU'LL HAVE NEW INFORMATION NOT
IF THIS IS A RECONNAISSANCE
LEVEL BUT THEY'RE STILL
PROVIDING MORE INFORMATION THAN
YOU HAVE NOW AND A LOT OF THESE
PROPERTIES WHICH IS ZERO AND IT
WILL DO IT WILL CATEGORIZE
PROPERTIES AS AS CONTRIBUTING
OR NOT CONTRIBUTING AND THAT
OF COURSE IS UP TO YOU TO HAVE
THE FINAL WORD ON.
BUT THAT'LL BE VERY USEFUL WHEN
PEOPLE CALL OFF OR LOOK IT UP
THEMSELVES.
I DON'T HAVE TO EXPLAIN WELL,
YOU KNOW, WHEN THEY DID THE
SURVEY IN NINETEEN EIGHTY TWO
THEY NEVER ADDRESSED YOUR HOUSE
AND SO YOU'LL HAVE TO GO TO THE
COMMISSION AND ASK THEM WHETHER
YOU THINK YOU KNOW BLAH BLAH
BLAH SO IT'LL BE IT'LL BE GOOD
AND I WILL BRING THAT REPORT TO
THE RETREAT AND PUT IT ON THE
AGENDA AND WE WON'T SPEND A LOT
OF TIME ON IT BUT I'M GLAD THAT
YOUR INTEREST ARE THEY LOOKING
AT EXTENDING THE PERIOD
OF SIGNIFICANCE?
THERE'S NO SAME PERIOD
OF SIGNIFICANCE.
OK, YEAH IT'D BE INTERESTING.
IT'S A DIFFERENT CAN OF WORMS.
YEAH YEAH.
JUST THINKING BACK TO THE FACT
THAT OUR LAST CONVERSATION
ABOUT STAFF APPROVALS ARE THERE
ANY LINE SETS FOR HEAT PUMPS?
THERE ARE STAFF CAN USE STAFF
APPROVE ANY EXTERIOR LINES.
IT'S LIKE IN THE BACK OF THE
PROPERTY.
CAN YOU APPROVE AND I DON'T
THINK I CAN APPROVE ANY LINE
SETS.
YEAH.
SO MAYBE WE CAN TALK ABOUT THAT
AS I KNOW IT'S SUCH A BIG THING
THAT IS GOING TO BE COMING DOWN
VERY SOON.
IT'S IT'S MINDSETS ARE STRANGE
AND HITBOX BECAUSE WE WE GOT
JUST A LOT OF THEM ABOUT THREE
OR FOUR YEARS AGO BEFORE COVID
AND I HAVEN'T HAD A NEW ONE IN
TWO OR THREE YEARS BUT THEY'RE
GOING THERE THEY'RE EVERYWHERE
THAT WELL MAYBE THEY'RE JUST
PUTTING THEM IN WITHOUT YEAH.
OR MAYBE THEY'RE EVERYWHERE
ELSE I DON'T KNOW MAYBE PEOPLE
THINK THAT OUR DISTRICT DOESN'T
ALLOW THEM OR SOMETHING.
>> WELL RIGHT BUT MAYBE IF WE
HAD TO ADVERTISE A STAFF
APPROVAL FOR THIS WEEKEND ON
CONDITION THEN MAYBE CERTAINLY
TALK ABOUT PEOPLE WOULD BE MORE
INTERESTED IN GETTING A PERMIT.
>> YEAH WE CAN TALK ABOUT LINES
THAT'S ABSOLUTELY.
I MEAN THERE ARE YEAH THERE ARE
DECENT PLACES TO PUT THEM AND
THERE ARE HORRIBLE PLACES TO
PUT THAT AND THERE'S PLENTY
OF EXAMPLES OF ASSOCIATIONS.
YEAH YEAH.
DRIVE DOWN THE STREET.
I KNOW THAT SOUNDS A SLIDE SHOW
ACTUALLY WE DID THIS AT THE
RETREAT PROBABLY FIVE OR SIX
YEARS AGO.
OKAY WELL I THOUGHT I'LL GET
OUT THAT PRESIDENT YEAH YEAH.
SEE IF IT'S OK.
>> MOVING ON TO CONCERNS
OF COMMISSIONERS ARE THERE ANY
CONCERNS OK?
DO WE HAVE ANY COMMUNICATIONS
WE DO KNOW OK ADJOURNMENT I NOW
ADJOURN MARCH 14TH TWENTY
TWENTY FOUR HISTORIC DISTRICT
COMMISSION MEETING THANK YOU
ALL YOU